{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang6153\deflangfe6153{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Black;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red47\green84\blue150;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}{\s3 heading 3;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sl252\slmult1\qc\cf1\b\f0\fs32\lang2057 Steem SSE FAQ\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22 v4.1.1\par
\par
Q:\par
What is the Atari ST?\par
A:\par
The Atari ST was, all considered, the best 16bit computer of the Eighties. With it you could do more or less serious work and play more or less good games, or even watch demos with many doors.\par
\par
Q:\par
What is Steem SSE?\par
A:\par
Steem SSE stands for \i ST Enhanced EMulator Sensei Software Edition\i0 . Steem SSE is an update of Steem, a legendary Atari STE emulator for the PC developed by Anthony and Russel Hayward. \lang6153 Some say an improvement, some say it's worse!\par
\lang2057\par
Q:\par
Why should I use the SSE version and not the older version?\par
A:\par
Depends on your needs and wants, Steem SSE can do more and features improved emulation, but Steem 3.2 was already very good.\par
\par
Q:\par
Is Steem SSE cycle-accurate?\par
A:\par
No, Steem SSE tries to be 100% compatible with all ST software, so it is cycle-accurate where it should be to ensure that compatibility. From experience, total cycle accuracy using low-level emulation can be very demanding even on our fast computers.\par
\par
Q:\par
Doesn't Steem SSE make the ST appear better than it was?\par
A:\par
Potentially it is possible because Steem SSE has the options to do that (higher speed, bigger screen etc.). \par
\par
Q:\par
Wasn't the Amiga better anyway?\par
A:\par
Undoubtedly, the Amiga games generally had better graphics and 2D animation.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\tx3550 For native sound, there's a discussion because the ST's modest YM2149 ain't that great, the Amiga's  8bit samples neither, yet brilliant tunes have been produced on both machines. The Amiga has one more voice, so hopefully fewer games forced you to choose between sound effects and music, or would mute part of the music in order to play effects.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1 For utilities, the Amiga shined (flickered actually) in colour graphics and, in the USA, for video. The ST was good in MIDI especially, and most of the rest thanks to its no-nonsense OS and hardware, including the great monochrome monitor.\par
\par
Q:\par
Should I use the 32bit build or the 64bit build (or neither)?\par
A:\par
One good reason for using the 32bit build is that there's no 64bit \i pasti.dll\i0  for the moment, so no support for STX disk images.\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\sa200\sl240\slmult1 VSync generally consumes more CPU on the 64bit builds.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1 Since v4.1, the 64bit build uses a main cycle counter running at 32MHz instead of 8MHz. The effect on emulation is extremely limited for now (just bugs probably).\par
\par
Q:\par
How much does it cost?\par
A:\par
Steem is free software. \par
\par
Q:\par
How does it work?\par
A:\par
To use Steem SSE, you need a copy of one of the Atari ST ROM, called \i TOS\i0 , and some image disk files. When you first launch Steem, you may indicate where they are, which you can change later. Disk images are easy to find. Legally this is still copyrighted material, and if they really wanted, companies that own it could call a halt on emulation, but they don't.\par
\par
Q:\par
Where do I find roms?\par
A:\par
For Atari ST emulation, most games are disk images, not roms. You need roms only for the operating system (TOS), there are a few versions.\par
Please check the manual and the links for some pointers.\par
\par
Q:\par
What do STF and STE stand for?\par
A:\par
ST=Sixteen Thirty-two, a reference to the 16/32bit architecture, this covers all models emulated in Steem SSE.\par
STF=F for Floppy, because the floppy drive is integrated in the console. This is reflected in Steem by the fact that you can disable drive B: (external) but not A: (internal).\par
STE=ST Enhanced, because it has more features, like hardware scrolling, stereo sound, etc. (a bit game-oriented!)\par
Beside 520 ST and 520 STF, there were also 520 STM and 520 STFM models. All 1040 were STF, STFM or STE.\par
The STF came before the STE. The STE is better but most programs targeted the STF for commercial reasons. Generally the STE disappointed as a computer coming 5 years after the STF.\par
The Mega models were professional-oriented. So professional that Atari first called them Mega ST, then just Mega. Like the "ST" was more infamous than "Atari" :)\par
\par
Q:\par
Which ST model should I select?\par
A:\par
It depends on the program you need to run. Most will run on all models, but some programs are STF-only, some others are STE-only. If you don't know, a good bet is to start with STE since this computer had more features, if it doesn't work then switch to STF. Please check the Hints where some exclusive STF or STE programs are listed.\par
\par
Q:\par
How do I change the CRT emu settings?\par
A:\par
You need to edit the text files in the plugins folder. I know it's not ideal but see the bright side: Steem SSE now supports those shaders. You don't need to restart Steem to see the changes, just uncheck/check the option.\par
\par
Q:\par
Which TOS should I use?\par
A:\par
Generally, TOS 1.02 is the most compatible for STF mode, and TOS 1.62 for STE mode. Some rare programs require another version, like TOS 1.00 for very old games, or even depend on a country-specific TOS.\par
\par
Q:\par
There's some option I don't find anymore!\par
A:\par
Some options are enabled only when the \i Misc./Show all settings\i0  option is checked, in the hope that this makes the GUI clearer.\par
Other options are enabled only when the \i Misc./Hacks\i0  option is checked. It is because those options go beyond what a regular ST could do.\par
It's not a problem because those options are persistent, you can set it and forget it.\par
\par
Q:\par
Help! Something went wrong and now even quitting and restarting Steem SSE doesn't help.\par
A:\par
You could delete the file \i auto32.sts\i0  or \i auto64.sts\i0  in Steem's directory. It can get corrupted. In rare cases of very bad corruption you may even need to delete or edit \i steem.ini\i0 . That's why you should back it up from time to time.\par
\par
Q:\par
Help! I reset the ST, stop and start Steem SSE, delete \i auto32.sts\i0  and I just get a blank screen.\par
A:\par
Check options ST model and TOS, they absolutely must be compatible now (no more STE with TOS 1.02, it won't work, just like real hardware). \par
\par
Q:\par
Steem can't handle zip or rar or 7z files.\par
A:\par
Check that necessary DLL files are in your Steem /plugins folder (or your system folder). \par
Steem can use unrar.dll, unzipd32.dll and ArchiveAccess.dll, the latter being able to handle rar and zip images as well as 7z.\par
XSteem can also handle rar and 7z files using command-line tools.\par
\par
Q:\par
I find scrollers and games jerky compared with a real ST.\par
A:\par
Believe it or not, Steem can be very smooth on the right hardware. The key is being able to use VSync at the correct frequency. For ST emulation, this is a headache as the beast could display at 50Hz, 60Hz or 72Hz. Note that after a long period of 60Hz only, many LCD screens can now refresh at those frequencies.\par
The option \i Microseconds\i0  uses a more precise counter. Useful if you have FreeSync hardware. It will also help if you make Steem a high priority process (general options tab). Steem is low CPU but it has a hard timing requirement: it wants to blit a frame 50, 60 or 71 times per second, evenly. \par
\par
Q:\par
How do I know if VSync is operating?\par
A:\par
In windowed mode you will see two figures (ST/PC) in the status bar if the option is engaged. In fullscreen mode, you may get the information as OSD debug info. That's not enough. To know if it's really working you need to check with a scroller (such as on a menu disk): if it's perfectly smooth without hiccups, it's working. If it isn't, it may be due to a lot of reasons, including wrong PC frequency, using a secondary monitor, etc.\par
\par
Q:\par
Does Steem SSE support G-Sync and FreeSync?\par
A:\par
Yes. Don't enable VSync. If everything is OK, it will be smooth even if your program changes the frequency on the fly like those earlier Automation menu disks do. In my experience, VSync is still smoother, may depend on your hardware. If you want VSync, disable FreeSync for best results.\par
\par
Q:\par
What if have no FreeSync?\par
A:\par
A good compromise is to check \i Auto VSync\i0  and set your display frequency at 100Hz if available (or customisable): smooth for 50Hz, OK for 60Hz.\par
\par
Q:\par
It seems there's some lag between input and output, video or sound.\par
A:\par
Alas this is an emulation, not real hardware, everything must be rendered and it takes time, we're at least one frame behind.\par
\par
Q:\par
I have problems with sound!\par
A:\par
Me too! It isn't easy to fix. There have always been sound issues on the PC. Steem authors provided some options to help, just in case. The options that should make the most sense are:\par
- Default sound driver\par
- Buffer 1 frame only if your computer can handle it, if not there will be glitches\par
- Frequency: depends on your hardware and the program, 48 KHz is generally fine\par
- Format: 16bit stereo is advised\par
\par
Q:\par
There's no sound at all.\par
A:\par
First check the sound options: are the devices disabled, is the volume or the filter set to zero, is the selected soundcard connected to speakers?  Then you should check the volume mixer in your task bar, it regularly happens that the Steem slider be set to zero without apparent reason. Could even be a Windows issue. \par
\par
Q:\par
I can't use the following keys: W, S, A, Z, L-Shift, R-Shift\par
A:\par
Check the joystick options, they could be interfering.\par
\par
Q:\par
Joysticks don't seem to be read correctly.\par
A:\par
Check that option \i IO Ports/Special adapters\i0  doesn't interfere.\par
Check that you don't have some autofire on.\par
\par
Q:\par
The mouse doesn't respond.\par
A:\par
Could be that joystick 0 is selected, it's as on hardware since v4.1.\par
\par
Q:\par
I have fullscreen issues (distorted picture, crash, hanging...)\par
A:\par
Sorry about that, it's tough to get right, and Steem SSE is not the only parameter here. If you report a bug we try to fix it.\par
\par
Q:\par
What's the difference between ACSI and GEMDOS hard drives?\par
A:\par
ACSI emulation is lower level, it operates on image files of hard disks, and should work (or not) more as on a real Atari. It requires drivers on the ST side. GEMDOS emulation directly uses folders and files on your PC hard drive and intercepts TOS commands (it's nearly 100% the work of Steem authors, not me). It requires no driver. It is more convenient but less compatible by nature (it's a big hack).\par
\par
Q:\par
I insert a bootable floppy (checksum $1234) but Steem still boots the hard drive.\par
A:\par
If the floppy's boot procedure returns to the system, the ST tries to boot hard drives, it's normal.\par
\par
Q:\par
Pressing ALT to boot from hard drive doesn't work most of the time.\par
A:\par
It seems to work better with ACSI emulation, it probably goes too fast with GEMDOS emulation.\par
\par
Q:\par
Are state snapshots (.sts) compatible between versions?\par
A:\par
While there's no 100% guarantee, we try to maintain some compatibility. There's no compatibility between 32bit and 64bit builds, and we don't officially support compatibility between the debug builds and the regular builds.\par
\par
Q:\par
What is the \i wakeup state\i0 ?\par
A:\par
It is the state in which your ST booted, due to synchronisation between various chips. It has an influence on shifter trick timings. You may generally ignore this option, it is useful only to check the display of some edgy games or demos. Those are mentioned in Hints.\par
\par
Q:\par
I don't want to mess with wakeup states but I want all edgy demos to display perfectly!\par
A:\par
Some (rare) programs don't work well with some GLUE wakeups, so there's no choice. Unless you only run STE programs, on this machine there's no GLUE wakeup variation.\par
The default for Shifter wakeup, 0, is correct for Spectrum 512 pictures. I take it as the standard.\par
\par
Q:\par
Hey, you claim you fixed file associations, but it doesn't work on my computer.\par
A:\par
For it to work you first need to manually remove the associations in the HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT part of the registry, that were put by previous versions of Steem.\par
\par
Q:\par
There's a strange bug, the keyboard doesn't click like on a real ST.\par
A:\par
Check the keyboard options.\par
\par
Q:\par
Steem SSE stutters when loading a SCP game.\par
A:\par
If it is a 7z archive, delay is the price of high compression. A plugin used by Steem SSE extracts the full disk image before doing anything with it.\par
\par
Q:\par
Inserting normal (ST/MSA) disk images takes more time than before.\par
A:\par
Could be the Disk Manager option \i MFM emulation\i0 . Images are converted on the fly.\par
\par
Q:\par
Is support for the Falcon planned?\par
A:\par
No. To me those machines, like the TT, have no interest. Steem SSE is strictly ST.\par
\par
Q:\par
What's the use of the STW disk image format?\par
A:\par
A STW disk image is a simple MFM encoding format of regular Atari ST floppy disks. It allows correct emulation of the WD1772 \i Format\i0  command, indeed new disk images need to be formatted before use. \par
\par
Q:\par
Why did you create STW if Steem SSE supports the similar HFE anyway?\par
A:\par
STW support came first, I thought HFE was much more complicated. It is now but notice that Steem SSE doesn't support the more recent and elaborate HFE format.\par
\par
Q:\par
PRG support doesn't work!\par
A:\par
You really need to choose a path pointing to a PRG folder in the Gemdos hard drive manager and assign the Z letter to it. You also need to enable the option in the Disk Manager. You don't need to enable Gemdos hard drives. It won't work if other files are needed beside the PRG/TOS one.\par
\par
Q:\par
Why do the Linux builds (XSteem SSE) have fewer features than the Windows builds?\par
A:\par
Simple question of time and motivation, also Windows has more resources (Direct X). Fortunately, work has resumed on that build, mainly thanks to VMware and CodeLite that make it more fun.\par
\par
Q:\par
The Debugger window doesn't appear in the debug build.\par
A:\par
You can toggle the Debugger on/off using the bomb in the tool bar, or the menu, or a shortcut.\par
\par
Q:\par
Why is Steem SSE using relatively old libraries (VC2008, DD7, D3D9...)?\par
A:\par
That way Steem SSE is still compatible with old systems running, for example, Windows XP.\par
\par
Q:\lang1036\par
I get mush as graphics in almost every demo.\par
A:\par
Since v4, emulation of software overscan is optional (ST Video).\par
\lang2057\par
Q:\par
Steem SSE freezes when I change options while emulation is running.\par
A:\par
It happens more often if the emulation thread option is checked.\par
\par
Q:\par
With the CRT option, much time is needed to resize the window.\par
A:\par
A lot of things are happening in the plugin, it's best to check the option when other display options won't change (size, border, sync...).\par
\par
Q:\par
When I try to run Steem SSE, It throws an error 'The code execution cannot proceed because D3DX9_43.dll was not found. Reinstalling the program may fix the problem'.\par
A:\par
The DirectX 9 installation is not complete on recent Windows versions for some reason, and should be updated:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=35 }}{\fldrslt{https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=35\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
The licence doesn't allow including the missing DLL directly in the download package.\par
\par
}
 