{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang6153\deflangfe6153{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Black;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}}
{\colortbl ;\red47\green84\blue150;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sl252\slmult1\qc\cf1\b\f0\fs32\lang9 Steem SSE Hints\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22 v4.1.2\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs32 General Hints\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 - Read the manual (available inline in Steem).\par
- Make regular backups of your steem.ini.\par
In some cases, it can get corrupted, and setting everything up again is a pain. Normally it shouldn't happen anymore in v4, but you never know.\par
- Also back up your shortcuts. Check that you don't define the same shortcut twice.\par
- It's a good idea to back up your floppy and hard disk images too.\par
- If Steem SSE crashes on load, it could be due to a corrupted "auto.sts" file, which you are then advised to delete. There is an option to disable resuming the last state on startup.\par
- Try realistic combinations of ST model/TOS (not STF + TOS 1.06 or STE + TOS 1.02, it won't even boot).\par
- Most programs target the colour monitor, although many serious programs target the monochrome monitor.\par
- If a program doesn't work, the first things to check are drive speed and ST model. After that, you may change memory size (especially 4MB is trouble with some programs), TOS.\par
- Most configurations had only one floppy drive. Quite a number of games don't work well when two drives are connected (Steem was more forgiving before), to disconnect drive B: just click on it.\par
- Option \i Low-level 6301 emulation (C1)\i0  is highly recommended for more accurate emulation but it does change the mouse feel for the better or worse, it depends on personal preference.\par
- If you're running demos, better check the ST Video options \i Borders\i0  and \i Software Overscan\i0 .\par
- If you see dots on some high-colour pictures, adjust the ST Video option \i Shifter Wakeup\i0 . \par
Reminder: this is a problem on real hardware, not an emulation bug. Most demos seem to be compatible with 0, this is the Spectrum 512 standard.\par
- Some patches allow you to pass protection screens of some original games, I only do the easy ones.\par
- For better performance, you may want to close dialog boxes (Options etc.) you don't need.\par
- Disable keyboard click only when you need it, the option changes an internal variable that could be used for something else by a not TOS-compliant program.\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs32 Emulation Hints\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 If a program doesn't work in Steem SSE, please check the lists below, maybe the solution is there. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb40\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs26 Explanation of symbols\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 C1: Low-level 6301 emulation on Keyboard/Mouse option page\par
C2: High-level software overscan emulation\par
This isn't listed for demos because there are too many cases. It is listed for games, but pirated games with an overscan intro aren't listed.\par
When you use C2, some border is generally recommended too.\par
DI: there are bad disk images around \par
HIRES: program can run in monochrome\par
STF or STE: select in Machine option 'ST model'\par
T1XX where X are digits: TOS version\par
WU: ST Video option \i GLU Wakeup\i0  (1-4)\par
US: ST Video option Unstable Shifter\par
WP: write-protect the disk\par
There are 2 different ways in Steem, depending on whether the disk is in a ZIP or RAR archive or not.\par
If it is the case, uncheck Read/Write Archives in the disk manager options.\par
If not, right click and check Read Only.\par
ADAT: Disk Manager option \i Turbo Drive\i0  unchecked\par
No B: disconnect drive B in Disk Manager\par
60Hz: the game apparently can operate at 60Hz, which can be interesting if you want to use VSync with a 60Hz monitor. Note there are certainly many more, it's not a complete list at all.\par
MSTE: Mega STE\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb40\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs26 Applications\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 - Aladin: no WP, HIRES\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1 - Aladin 3.0: no ACSI (HD or laser printer) (notice dongle not emulated)\lang2057\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 - Audio Sculpture: C1, DI\par
- Aura: DI (SCP)\par
- Copy and Utility Disk Volume 1: STF\par
- LaceScan: T104\par
- Megamax C: on C root\par
- Mono Emulator: T100\par
- Notator and other MIDI programs: C1 (notice dongles not emulated)\par
- Spectrum 512: use correct TOS for 50/60Hz\par
- Synergy Chipmon II: STF\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb40\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs26 Games\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 - 10th Frame: dongle, C1, no joystick\par
- 4 Wheel Drive/Combo Racer STX: pasti 02j\par
- Airball: press space on control screen to start\par
- Albedo STX: DI, pasti 02j\par
- Alta\'efr: to use the missile, press any SHIFT key\par
- Amberstar STX: WP\par
- Antago STX, SCP: WP\par
- Arctic Fox: not T106\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\lang2057 - Arkanoid: T100, T102 (DI), MIDI\par
- Asterix chez Rahazade: STF\par
- Bard's Tale: <T104, boot from B to create character disk\par
\lang9 - Billiards Simulator: <4MB\par
- Bill Palmer -STCS: STF, enter 111\par
- Bombjack: MIDI\par
- Bonanza Bros: No B, joystick 0\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 - Bubble Dizzy original: No B\par
- Captain Blood: Version (only French version has no hyperspace glitch), C1, not 'Clock always correct', <4MB\par
\lang2057 - Captain Dynamo: No B\par
- Chopper-X: MIDI\lang9\par
- Crash Garret: STF\par
- Crazy Cars 2: F7 for joystick control\par
- Darius auto166: DI\par
- Damocles: No B\par
- Debut: No B\par
- Dragonflight: STW\par
- Dynabusters+: STE; F1: music F2: volume\par
- Enchanted Land: C2\par
- Esprit: HIRES\par
- Eye of Horus -MCA: T100\par
- F-29: <4MB\par
- The Final Conflict: C1\par
- Final Legacy: MIDI\par
- Fireblaster: MIDI\par
- Flying Shark STX: STF\par
- Forgotten Worlds: click and move mouse left to start\par
- Foundation's Waste, some versions: No B\par
- Future Wars: No B\par
- Gauntlet II: I/O Ports - Parallel port: None\par
- Get Dexter 2 -42C: STF\par
- Gemini Wings: 512KB\par
- Golden Path: T100\par
- Goldrunner: 60Hz (F4: most cracked versions!), mouse, BFI\par
- Goldrunner II: no B or load 2 disks at once, F3 to centre, mouse\par
- Grand Monster Slam: STF\par
- Gunship: No B\par
- Harris Goes Skiing: STF\par
- H.A.T.E: wait or FF\par
- Hunchy 2010: not C1\par
- Hyperdrome: 60Hz\par
- Hyper Force: STF, press fire then space to start\par
- Insects in Space: no B\par
- IK+: STF\par
- International Tennis: not C1 (game is bugged)\par
- Ikari Warriors: 60Hz\par
- Jupiter Masterdrive STX: DI\par
- Jupiter Probe: 60Hz\par
- Karate Kid Part II: MIDI\par
- Karate King: not T102\par
- King's Quest III STX: DI\par
- Leatherneck: disconnect parallel ST port if you don't use it for joysticks\line AFAIK, you can only fire vertically :(\par
\lang1036 - Les Aventures De Moktar: no ghost disk\par
\lang9 - Lethal Xcess: C2\par
- Leviathan STX: STF\par
- Light Cycles: STF\par
- Live & Let Die: STF\par
- Lotus Esprit Turbo Challenge STE 1.0 \par
Mega STE: shift until presentation screen for 16MHz no cache\par
T206: wait or press key\par
- Mayday Squad: MIDI\par
- Manchester United: C1\par
- Marble Madness: MIDI\par
\lang1036 - Menace: 60Hz\par
- Mercs STX: not T102\par
- Metropolis: MIDI\par
\lang9 - MGT: 60Hz\par
- Microprose Golf ST: ADAT\par
- Moonfall: not T100\par
- Navy Moves: C2\par
- Nervana: MIDI\par
- The New Zealand Story: ADAT, STF (1st version)\par
- Nightdawn: STF\par
- No Buddies Land: C2\par
- Obsession: STE, C2\par
- Oh-no ! More Lemmings: no B\par
- Orion's Run: STF\par
- Overscan Invaders: C2\par
- Overlander: STF\par
- Pacmania STE: C2\par
- Pang: C2, ADAT\par
- Parasol Stars: not T100\par
- Passengers on the Wind 2 IPF: T100\par
- The Pawn etc.: HIRES, hicolour title\par
- Persee  et Andromede: STF\par
- Pinball Magic etc.: use shortcuts, ST keyboard is different from PC\par
- Pirates: MIDI\par
- Pirates -DLT: No B, 1MB\par
- Platoon STX: STF T100US (DI)\par
- Prince: ADAT\par
- Prime Time STF T100\par
- Realm of the Trolls: use ACopy to copy disk B on a STW disk (if you want to edit)\par
- Renegade: STF\par
- Risky Woods: <4MB\par
- Rogue: T100\par
- Roller Coaster Rumbler: STF\par
- R-Type: STF, 60Hz\par
- Scrabble: no WP\par
- Seconds Out: Be quick to change disks\par
- The Sentinel (aka The Sentry): C1; Automation 001: STF T100\par
- Skull & Crossbones: WP\par
- Slap Fight: mouse\par
- Slayer: STF\par
- Space Station: MIDI\par
- Spidertronic: French TOS\par
- Spikey in Transylvania: no B\par
- Starglider: STF, HIRES\par
- Starglider 2: HIRES\par
- StarRay: 60Hz\par
- Star Trek STX: not T102\par
- ST Karate: MIDI\par
- ST-Protector: MIDI, press joystick button\par
- Strider II: no B\par
- Substation: C2\par
- Super Grand Prix: No B\par
- Super Hang-On: avoid BLR, RPL versions (DI?)\par
- Sundog: Ghost disk\par
- Super Cycle: 60Hz\par
- Test Drive: RAM <4MB\par
\lang1036 - Titan -MB: not T102\par
- Triton III: 60Hz, DI, Medway Boys 60\par
\lang9 - TNT: Zuul 157\par
- Tonic Tile: T100\par
- Trauma: French TOS, mouse\par
- Treasure Trap: DI\par
- Triple Yahtzee: STE\par
- Ultimate Arena: STE\par
- Ultimate Ride: No B\par
- Victory Road: STF\par
- Vindicators: Joystick 0\par
- Vroom -RPL: ADAT\par
- War Heli-MB: ADAT\par
- Warhawk: mouse\par
- War Heli STX: DI\par
- Warzone by Paradox: MIDI\par
- War Zone by Core Design: not T102\par
- Warp STX: C1, DI\par
- Wings of Death: DI, control for 60Hz\par
- Wrath of The Demon -VMX: DI?\par
- Xenon: 60Hz\par
- X-Out: C1\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs26 Dongle games\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Choose the appropriate adapter in the \i I/O Ports\i0  option page + C1.\par
Don't forget to remove it when you don't need it anymore!\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb40\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs26 Light gun\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Light gun games: not supported\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb40\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs26 Menu disks\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 General hint for menu disks: always try different sources/versions if available, there are many corrupt disk images.\par
Some menus weren't compatible with the STE (flickering or hanging), it isn't a Steem bug.\par
Hacking and compacting games is not always trivial, sometimes the game is bugged on a particular menu, it's not a Steem bug (see Bugs).\par
There's often a 50/60Hz option. The menu music speed can be affected. Games are not necessarily compatible with 60Hz. Speed can also be altered.\par
Some of the disk images circulating on the internet or CDROMs are duff. This site has many good or restored versions (but not Automation):\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://stonish.net/ }}{\fldrslt{http://stonish.net/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
- A-Ha/Mig 29: press space & wait\par
- Automation 000/IK+: STF\par
- Automation 001/The Sentinel: STF, C1, ADAT\par
- Automation 004/Eden Blues: STF\par
- Automation 008/Goldrunner: DI\par
- Automation 008/Ninja Mission: DI\par
- Automation 008/Q-Ball: DI\par
- Automation 008/Spook: STF\par
- Automation 018v1/Buggy Boy: T100\par
- Automation 020/Garfield: STF\par
- Automation 028/Frost Byte: DI\par
- Automation 036/Pool: DI\par
- Automation 040/Megaroids: STF\par
- Automation 046/Menace: STF\par
- Automation 054/LED Storm: T100\par
- Automation 058/Wizard Royal: STF\par
- Automation 063: T100\par
- Automation 071/Karting Grand Prix: STF\par
- Automation 076/Great Battles: STF\par
- Automation 081/Star Wars: STF\par
- Automation 082, 109: keyboard click\par
- Automation 088/Action Fighter: DI\par
- Automation 095/Cosmic Pirates: No B\par
- Automation 097-099 v2: >T100\par
- Automation 104/Butcher Hill: STF\par
- Automation 120: <4MB\par
- Automation 124: MIDI\par
- Automation 137/Blue War 3: STF\par
\lang1036 - Automation 168: STF WU 2, 4\par
- Automation 199/Colourspace: STE\par
- Automation 208/Tonic Tile: T100\par
- Automation 222: STF WU 2, 4\par
- Automation 224: DI\par
- Automation 231/Rainbow Island: STF\par
- Automation 239: DI, C1\par
- Automation 250/Necron: DI\par
- Automation 261/Ninja Spirit: T100\par
- Automation 265/Winnie the Pooh: STF\par
- Automation 273/Score Four: T100\par
\lang9 - Automation 311/Mr Dig: STF\par
- Automation 319: DI\par
- Automation 324: Press space\par
- Automation 338/Solo: STF\par
- Automation 355/Stock Market: DI\par
- Automation 394/Mystical: STF\par
- Automation 429/Atomino: STF\par
-Automation 438/Sorry: STF\par
- Automation 500L/Prehistorik: STF\par
Many Automation CDs were redone for the STE, they're not mentioned here.\par
- Awesome 17: DI\par
- Crazy Boy 10 No B\par
- Deadly FX 02/Line of Fire: STE, ADAT\par
- Dodgysoft 94: STF WU 2, 4\par
- Fuzion 020/Lotus: don't load on real ST, don't use pasti\par
- Fuzion 030/Speedball II: STE\par
- Fuzion 033/L'Art de la Guerre: <T104\par
- Fuzion 042: STF\par
- Fuzion 045: DI\par
- Fuzion 048/Spellfire the Sorcerer: STF\par
- Fuzion 077: Not STFM\par
- Fuzion 078: DI, not STFM\par
- Fuzion 150: No B\par
- Fuzion 155: DI\par
- Guardians of Logik 12: DI, ST Aspect Ratio\par
\lang2057 - KCD001: STE\lang9\par
- Lemmings 40: STF\par
- Medway 001, ...: <4MB because of the stupid antivirus by you guess who!\par
- Medway 017 Thundercats: DI\par
This antivirus ('Protector') can be found on other disks. \par
- POV127 omega STE: wait\par
- POV148, 150: STE 4MB\par
- PP43: <4MB\par
- Pulsion 172: <4MB, not WU 2\par
- Pyromaniacs 08: STF WU 2, 4\par
- Ripped Off 14, 56, 60, etc.: <4MB because of the stupid antivirus (maybe there are other versions)\par
- SFX019: DI\par
- Speedy Pack #02 -HMD: enable Sound/Keyboard click\par
- Superior 060 (Wings of Death): STE\par
- Superior 065/Blood Money: T102 (no guarantee, bloody packing work)\par
- Superior 101: STF\par
- Supremacy 002: not T100\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb40\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs26 Demos\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Some 'mega' demos have a reset screen (left click on reset icon).\par
\par
- 0913: STE French or German TOS\par
- 20 Years: STE, T206 (thx amilo3438)\par
- 36.15 Gen4 by Cakeman: STF\par
- 36.15 HMD: STF, C1\par
- 36.15 Naos (POV 37-5): STF\par
- 36.15 OVR: STF, CPU speed\par
- Antiques: STE\par
- Awakening of the Gods: not T102; not STF WU 2, 4; press space twice for menu\par
- Beat Demo: Microwire\par
- Beeshift: US\par
- Beyond Parallax: not STF WU 2\par
- Big Wobble: STE; use arrow keys\par
- The Black Demo by The Black Cats: <4MB; Spritedemo and Circle: not T162\par
- Cernit Trandafir: STE, 4MB\par
- Choice of Gods/Attack of the Indigestion: STF WU 1, 3\par
- Circus backSTage: STE, 4MB\par
- Closure: ADAT\par
- Colorz: STE\par
- Corporation Megademo: STE, C1\par
- Cuddly Demos: DI\par
- Dangerous Fantaisy: STE\par
- Death of the Clock Cycles: 1MB\par
- Delirious 3: STE, numpad\par
- Delirious 4: STE, ADAT\par
- Deep Lair on Fuzion 80: STE\par
- Dragonnels: C1\par
- Dreamzone: DI\par
- Drone: STE, 4MB, ACSI (ICD OK, not AHDI)\par
- Dungeon Master demo: no WP\par
- E605: STE\par
- Electra: reset\par
- The Enchanted Demo: STE\par
- European Demos: No B or insert both disks before starting\par
- Extra Volume 7: STF for some demos\par
- Extreme Rage: STE\par
- Fantasia: STE T106 or DI\par
- FCKCANCR: STE 4MB\par
- Froggies Over the Fence: C1\par
- Garcimore 1, 2 (FR): <4MB\par
- Hackabonds Demo: STF\par
- Hier sind noch zwei Pl\'e4tze frei/plasma: C1\par
- Imagination: not STFM\par
- It makes me shake: STE\par
- Japtro: DI, STF\par
- Knocking at Krystals Doors: press return\par
\lang1036 - Kryos: STE\par
- Lame Trop: <4MB, \lang9 US\lang1036\par
\lang9 - Loste screens: ADAT\par
- Lovespy: DI\par
- Megablast demo by Fashion: <4MB\par
- More or less Zero: STE, 2MB\par
- Musical Wonder 1990: STF WU 1, 3 or STE\par
- New Stream Writer.prg: STW, HD, no acc\par
- No Cooper: not STFM\par
- Noughts and Mad Crosses: STE, ADAT\par
- NPG Megademo: ADAT\par
- Oh No More Froggies: <4MB (version?)\par
- Omega Demo: reset, Full Overscan Screen: STF WU 2\par
- Overdrive: C1\par
- Overdrive/Dragon: STF, US\par
- Pacemaker: STE; Space: credits at once\par
- Panic v1: STF\par
- Phalanx: STF T102\par
- Phaleon "normal loader": DI\par
- Place to Be Again: STE\par
- Q-Lize: STE T162\par
\lang2057 - The Race: WU 1, 3\lang9\par
- Red Fox sound demo by Exocet: <4MB\par
- Relapse: STE, 'Help'\par
- RGBeast: STE, not MSTE\par
- Riverside: STE\par
- Ronnie 2 demo by OUCH: <4MB\par
- Sadeness: WU1, 3\par
- Sea of Colour: STE 4MB GEMDOS HD or ACSI (not AHDI drivers), not MSTE, Emu param. 2/LMC1992/Slow fade\par
- The Sierpinski Overdose: STE, medium res\par
- Sinfull Sinuses: STE T162 Swedish\par
- Snork: DI\par
- Sound Demo 3 by Pure Energy: STF\par
- SoWatt: STF\par
- Spectrum Analyzer: STE\par
- Sphere by Sunny: STE\par
- ST-NICCC 2000 Final by Oxygene: ADAT\par
- Summer Delights: STE, 4MB\par
- Sunny: STE\par
- Super Neo Demo Show: ADAT, STF (WU 3?)\par
- Suretrip II - Dopecode by Checkpoint: ADAT\par
- Swedish New Year Demo 1989: STF\par
- SNYD2/Sync fullscreen: STF\par
- Symic: ADAT\par
- Time Slices: STE, HIRES\par
- Tragedy For U: STE, No B\par
- Transbeauce 2: C1; Naos: STE or STF WU 1, 3; disk B bootable\par
- Tyranny: STE\par
- Ultimate 3D Dots: STE, ADAT, No B\par
- Ultimate Demo by dynamic duo: <4MB\par
- Ultimate GFA Demo boot screen: STF\par
- Union Demo: STF 1MB, ADAT\par
- The World is my Oyster screen #2: STF\par
- Ventura: mouse to rotate menu\par
- Ventura/Board and Spheres+Ultimate Dist: STF, US\par
- World of Music STE: US\par
- Xmas 2004: Microwire\par
- Yanartas: STE\par
\par
}
 