{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang6153\deflangfe6153{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Black;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f5\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f7\fnil\fcharset255 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red79\green129\blue189;\red47\green84\blue150;\red0\green0\blue255;\red31\green55\blue99;\red0\green176\blue80;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}{\s3 heading 3;}{\s4 heading 4;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qc\cf1\b\f0\fs56\lang2057 STEEM MANUAL\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22 v4.0.2\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32 Atari ST\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 The Atari ST was a 16bit computer of the Eighties.\par
Beside the price, its forces were a no-nonsense graphical operating system (the GEM, that also existed on the PC), a very good flicker-free monochrome display for professional use, and MIDI ports. Thanks to the latter, the Atari ST was for a while the computer of choice for musicians, running the best MIDI software available (such as Cubase and Notator, Logic Audio's ancestor). In this domain, the ST was number one. In fact it is still used in some studios.\par
Its native sound is produced by the modest YM2149 chip, which is not good at sample playback but had some good tunes composed for it and even a cool speech synthesiser. \par
The ST struggles on scrolling action games because its chipset wasn't dedicated to that sort of childish programs, it was a serious computer. The STE version is better in this respect, in other words, less serious.\par
The ST has a great collection of games nevertheless, including action games, including scrollers.\par
Unlike most computers even today, the ST featured two useful keys: Help and Undo (mapped to Page Up and Page Down in Steem!)\par
Downsides of the ST were that earlier models were sold with single-sided drives, which forced the industry to compromise, the OS in ROM couldn't be easily fixed, memory wasn't easily extendable and viral piracy readily killed the platform.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32 Steem\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\expndtw15\fs28 Steem Engine, by Anthony & Russell Hayward\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22 Steem is a legendary Atari ST emulator for the PC, both accurate and easy to use thanks to its great user interface. Its development was stopped in 2004, at v3.2. The Steem authors probably got sick of all the lamers. In 2011 the Hayward bros released the source code for further development.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28 Steem SSE\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22 Steem SSE stands for \i ST Enhanced EMulator Sensei Software Edition\i0 . It is an updated version of Steem. \lang6153 Some say an improvement, some say it's worse!\par
\lang2057 Features have been added and emulation has been refined. Steem SSE's goal is to keep the Atari ST alive in the hearts and minds of old and new generations. \par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28 Steem 4\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22 Steem 4 is the latest Steem SSE version. Even better than the 3 series.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang2067 Steem SSE Web site\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1 {\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://sourceforge.net/projects/steemsse/ }}{\fldrslt{http://sourceforge.net/projects/steemsse/\ul0\cf0}}}}\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par
\lang2057 There are downloads, a blog, a forum, and the source code repository (SVN).\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28 About the manual\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22 This manual is based on the original readme.txt included with Steem. It's been updated to reflect all modifications introduced with Steem SSE.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32 Licence\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Steem and Steem SSE are free open source software. The licence is GPL3 as chosen by Steem authors.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32 Installation\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Extract files to a folder of your choice. Text files should be in a \i doc\i0  subdirectory and plugins (dll and other files) in a \i plugins32\i0  (32bit builds) or \i plugins64\i0  (64bit builds) subdirectory. There's no setup program. \par
When you run a Steem 4 build for the first time, it proposes to add a link to the new version in your start menu if you care about that. You may skip everything if Steem was already installed (but then you need to start a second time).\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Builds\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Eight builds of \i Steem 4\i0  are available for download:\par

\pard\widctlpar\li720\sa160\sl252\slmult1\f3 Debugger32D3D.exe\par
Debugger32DD.exe\par
Steem32D3D.exe\par
Steem32DD.exe\par
Debugger64D3D.exe\par
Debugger64DD.exe\par
Steem64D3D.exe\par
Steem64DD.exe\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\i\lang6153 Debugger\i0  releases include a powerful ST debugger interface but are heavier on the CPU. 32/64 stand for bits, DD/D3D for DirectDraw/Direct3D. \par
\f1\lang2057 The 32bit builds seem to perform better but that could depend on the computer. D3D builds are better for VSync and true fullscreen.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Requirements\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 You need a PC with a SSE2-compatible processor.\par
Windows builds require at least Windows 2000 and the 2008 C++ runtime. The D3D builds require DirectX 9.0c. \par
D3D 9.0 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=34429 }}{\fldrslt{https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=34429\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
VS2008 32bit {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=29 }}{\fldrslt{https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=29\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
VS2008 64bit {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=15336 }}{\fldrslt{https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=15336\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Third-party\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Steem works with various other programs or libraries.\par
\par
-ArchiveAccess.dll (included with the download)\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://sourceforge.net/projects/archiveaccess/ }}{\fldrslt{http://sourceforge.net/projects/archiveaccess/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
-CAPSImg.dll (included with the download)\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.kryoflux.com/ }}{\fldrslt{http://www.kryoflux.com/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
-Drive image (hard disk image manager)\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://atari.8bitchip.info/drimus.php }}{\fldrslt{http://atari.8bitchip.info/drimus.php\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  \par
\par
-FreeImage.dll (screenshots)\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://freeimage.sourceforge.net/download.html }}{\fldrslt{http://freeimage.sourceforge.net/download.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
If it's not up-to-date, it will not work well with recent versions of Steem SSE.\par
\par
-msa.exe\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://msaconverter.free.fr/ }}{\fldrslt{http://msaconverter.free.fr/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
-pasti.dll (32bit only, included with the download)\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://pasti.fxatari.com/ }}{\fldrslt{http://pasti.fxatari.com/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
(check at atari-forum for the most recent version)\par
\par
-stvl32.dll or stvl64.dll\par
A low-level ST video logic plugin (not released yet)\par
\par
-unrar.dll or unrar64.dll\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.rarlab.com/rar_add.htm }}{\fldrslt{http://www.rarlab.com/rar_add.htm\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
All the plugins can be stored in a \i plugins32\i0  or \i plugins64\i0  folder, it's the first place where Steem will look. After that, it looks in a \i plugins\i0  folder, then, for DLL files, in a folder with the same name as the DLL (pasti, FreeImage...). Finally in Steem's main directory.\par
\par
Steem uses additional data files, that are included in the main download:\par
-Folder 'DriveSound' with some samples\par
-Folder 'PRG' to help PRG/TOS files support, which should be copied into Steem's folder.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32 Emulation limitations\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Emulation is mostly high-level with some low-level elements where it helps most. \par
Emulation of the Mega ST is partial. The Mega STE isn't emulated at all.\par
The light gun is not emulated (hard to do on an LCD screen!)\par
STE digital sound filters are not emulated. Microwire isn't accurate.\par
Only one mouse in port 0 is emulated.\par
The MC68901 MFP's "Pulse Width Measurement Operation" isn't emulated. Timer B emulation is pragmatic and a bit dodgy.\par
SCP: can't write disk images. Protections with weak bits can be trouble.\par
ACSI hard drive emulation is limited to the original Atari AHDI command set.\par
GEMDOS hard drive emulation is not guaranteed to be compatible with all programs (it's a hack after all).\par
\fs24 DMA transfer timing is approximate.\par
MIDI emulation doesn't support network games (MIDI Maze).\par
Drive seek sound isn't very good.\par
All the noise in sound and video output isn't emulated.\fs22\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32\lang1033 Keyboard control\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057 If you press 'Alt' while emulation is stopped, a classic menu should appear and react to the keyboard. Press 'Alt' again to make it disappear (not 'Esc'). Most options of Steem can be changed with just the keyboard.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32\lang1033 Getting emulation started\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057 To use Steem, you need a copy of an Atari ROM with the operating system, called "TOS", and image disk files. When you first launch Steem, you must point to one, and you can change that later. One important point is to match ST model and TOS (see further), for example STF - TOS 1.02, STE - TOS 1.62.\par
\par
Use the disk manager or a shortcut to select the disk image, there are various ways to start emulation.\par
\par
Disk images are easy to find. For example:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://planetemu.net/index.php?section=menus&machine=34 }}{\fldrslt{http://planetemu.net/index.php?section=menus&machine=34\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  \par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.atarimania.com/ }}{\fldrslt{http://www.atarimania.com/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
TOS:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.avtandil.narod.ru/tose.html }}{\fldrslt{http://www.avtandil.narod.ru/tose.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  \par
\par
Legally this is still copyrighted material, and if they really wanted, companies that own it could call a halt on emulation, but they don't. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32\lang1033 Toolbar Icons\par
\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057 On the toolbar you find some icons; from left to right:\par
\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\i 1st group on the left\par
\i0 Reset\par
Play\par
Fast forward\par
Memory snapshot\par
Screenshot\par
Paste\par
Configurations\par
\par
\i 2nd group on the right\par
\i0 Disk manager\par
Joysticks\par
Patches\par
Shortcuts\par
Options\par
Debugger (Debugger builds only)\par
Info\par
\par
Some words of explanation are given for each icon.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Reset\par
\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 A left click on the reset button emulates the reset button of the ST ("warm reset").\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1 Notice that some demos were programmed to react on reset (hidden screen and such). \par
A right click emulates switching off, waiting as long as necessary for the RAM chips to clear (which could be minutes on a real ST), switching on again, except it's instant (don't think we'll get requests for precise delay).\par
Keyboard shortcuts may be assigned to warm or cold reset as well.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Play\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 You start/stop emulation by using the play button or function key F12.\par
\par
If you right click on 'Play', you advance in slow motion. The speed can be set in Options/General. For technical reasons, sound still plays if option 'Emulation thread' is active.\par
\par
When emulation starts, the mouse cursor is grabbed by Steem. You may change this (tricky) behaviour in the options. In that case, the mouse still controls Windows, and you can stop emulation by clicking on 'Play' again. If you click in the window, the mouse will be grabbed.\par
\par
F11 toggles mouse capture. You may also assign another shortcut, such as the middle mouse button (see Shortcuts).\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Fast forward\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Use this to skip boring intros. You may still expect accurate emulation. Steem uses more CPU power.\par
Right clicking on this also activates the 'lightsearch' (check if there is some picture hidden by colour definitions).\par
If you double click on this button (with the left or right button) it will stick down, so you don't have to hold down the button for particularly long waits.\par
For technical reasons, sound still plays if option 'Emulation thread' is active.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Memory snapshot\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 The camera and chip button on the Steem toolbar brings up a menu from which you can load and save memory snapshots. Save snapshot will save out the current state of the ST (not just RAM) to a file. \par
This can be useful for games without save facilities.\par
When you load a snapshot it will change your TOS version, monitor type, memory size and the current disks in the drives. The last ten snapshots that have been used appear also on this menu so you can quickly reload them. \par
There is also an option to undo the last snapshot load or reset in case you did it by mistake or it failed. \par
\ul Note\ulnone : memory snapshots of Steem32 and Steem64 are not mutually compatible!\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Screenshot\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Use the right mouse button to choose your options and the left one to record a screenshot.\par
The D3D builds of Steem can natively save a screenshot as a BMP, JPG, PNG or NEO file.\par
The DD builds of Steem can natively save in BMP or NEO format.\par
With the FreeImage.dll plugin, more formats and options are available (hint: use the last version).\par
PNG is the recommended format because it is both small and lossless. Notice that JPG is a lossy format, only appropriate for a very colourful screen.\par
NEO is the format used by Neochrome on the ST. It is only appropriate when there is no overscan and no palette trick.\par
It is also possible to save multiple screenshots in a row using a shortcut.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Paste\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 This button allows you to quickly and easily paste text from Windows into the ST. Just click on the button and Steem will type in the text at incredible speed. Some programs may struggle with the top speed, to slow it down right click on the button and choose a longer delay. \par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Configurations\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 It is possible to load or save configuration files in Steem. This includes all your current options and joystick settings.\par
You can manage your configurations through the aptly named option page or directly from this menu.\par
You can also load configuration files from the disk manager.\par
Loading a configuration file resets the ST.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Disk manager\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 The icon toggle Steem's disk manager (see below).\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Joysticks\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 You can assign keys or real (PC) joysticks to ST joystick ports 0 and 1 and to STE joysticks, and even to parallel port joysticks.\par
Steem handles analogue as well as digital PC joysticks.\par
Three setups may be recorded.\par
For 'up' you have 2 boxes, so you can map a joystick button as in arcade games, in addition to the joystick movement. Unfortunately, ST joysticks only used one button. \par
F11 to remove a key selection.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Patches\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Patches change the memory of the ST after a program has been loaded to change its behaviour.\par
This is useful to go around a bug or a protection, cheat in some game, etc.\par
You may create your own patches with a text editor.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Shortcuts\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 You can assign key combinations (up to 3 keys each) to either some Steem control (start/stop, fullscreen, etc.) or some Atari ST key.\par
Not only keys are taken as shortcuts but also mouse and joystick buttons.\par
You can load and save as many key sets as you wish and use several of them at the same time.\par
To avoid overwriting your changes, it's advised to name your own sets rather than edit the 'Default' set.\par
Keyboard control tips: you can scroll the list when the focus is on a 'Del' button. F11 to remove a key selection.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Options\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 The icon makes the extensive options dialog of Steem (see below) appear or disappear.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Debugger\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 This icon (an ST bomb) is only available in the D builds. It toggles the Debugger window(s). For (some) information about the Debugger, consult the Debugger release notes. It is not really covered by this manual. \par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Info\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 The blue 'i' icon opens an information box that can display this very manual and other useful documentation, and the \i TRACE.txt\i0  debug file if it exists. Pressing F1 when the emulator is stopped also opens that box. Esc closes the box.\par
\b Status\b0\par
A page in this window displays program statistics and the current state of chips (68000 etc.) \par
Figures are reset at each run (from start to stop by using the icons or F12 or some shortcut).\par
The overscan mask is a hexadecimal combination of those values:\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl240\slmult1\f4\fs16  TRICK_LINE_PLUS_26=0x01, \par
 TRICK_LINE_PLUS_2=0x02, \par
 TRICK_HIRES_OVERSCAN=2, // used for software and hw overscan in monochrome\par
 TRICK_LINE_MINUS_106=0x04,\par
 TRICK_LINE_MINUS_2=0x08,\par
 TRICK_LINE_PLUS_44=0x10,\par
 TRICK_4BIT_SCROLL=0x20,\par
 TRICK_OVERSCAN_MED_RES=0x40,\par
 TRICK_BLACK_LINE=0x80,\par
 TRICK_TOP_OVERSCAN=0x100,\par
 TRICK_BOTTOM_OVERSCAN=0x200,\par
 TRICK_BOTTOM_OVERSCAN_60HZ=0x400,\par
 TRICK_LINE_PLUS_20=0x800,\par
 TRICK_0BYTE_LINE=0x1000,\par
 TRICK_STABILISER=0x2000,\par
 TRICK_80BYTE_LINE=0x4000, // don't assume a "no trick" colour line = 160byte\par
 TRICK_UNSTABLE=0x08000,\par
 TRICK_LINE_PLUS_24=0x10000,\par
 TRICK_LINE_PLUS_4=0x20000,\par
 TRICK_LINE_PLUS_6=0x40000,\par
 TRICK_NEO=0x80000//tests\par
\f1\fs22 For a \i fullscreen\i0  demo, 2311 is typical.\par
Reset causes accidental lower overscan at 60Hz (400). 4096 colour palette use is an STE feature, but notice that the STE TOS itself uses that extended palette at each boot (13 times?) It also sets up default Microwire settings. Likewise, the TOS uses the timer B once at each boot. So you need to be careful when interpreting statistics, that's why some are split between TOS and program use.\par
Computing statistics may take a while if many colours are on the current frame. For this reason, they are computed only when the \i Status\i0  info page is active (or when you open it).\par
Because of the runtime load, FPS will appear only if the OSD option is checked.\par
If you want to investigate more, you may use the debugger.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32\lang1033 Status bar\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057 On the tool bar, some useful information is also given so that you have an instant idea of the current configuration. We call this zone the status bar.\par
Status info includes ST model, TOS version, RAM quantity, current video frequency and some icons for \i slow disk drive\i0  (ADAT), hard disk drive, \i chipset 1\i0  (6301/ACIA), \i chipset 2\i0  (Overscan emulation), when those are selected. The image extension of floppy drives is also given.\par
Video frequency is useful to tell 50Hz and 60Hz apart. If a game offers the option, 60Hz should be smoother, and display better on our current PC screens (with display option VSync).\par
See further for how to (de)activate all those options, some are advanced. It is useless to click on status icons ;)\par
\par
Instead of all this info, the status bar may contain only...\par
\par
 \fs24 HALT\fs22\par
In some conditions, the ST processor could 'halt', that is stop operating.\par
It means the program it was running crashed, and it's not possible to recover from this situation. \par
This may be an emulation bug or not (bad disk image, buggy ST program, etc.)\par
The ST must be reset. On the ST you would press the reset button (left click on the 'Reset' icon), or in very bad cases, switch off and, after a while to erase the memory, on (right click on the icon - instant effect).\par
\par
 \fs24 BLIT ERROR\fs22\par
Serious problem with video rendering. In some cases, Steem can recover, in others you have to leave or even use the task manager to kill Steem. Sorry.\par
Also, if you see GDI on the status bar, it means DirectX stopped working and you'd better restart Steem. Those issues mostly happen with fullscreen endeavours going wrong.\par
\par
 \fs24 6301 CRASH\fs22\par
There was some serious problem with the keyboard controller (6301) emulation. \par
\par
 \fs24 STEEM CRASHED AGAIN\fs22\par
As it says. Notice the humour of 'AGAIN'. The most prudent approach is to leave, but in some cases, you can resume emulation. If you quit while this message is showing, Steem won't attempt to save the state in order to avoid file corruption.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32\lang1033 Options\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Steem is a very complete emulator and there are really many options, spread between several pages (or tabs). All are explained here, tab by tab.\par
Note: Advanced options can be changed only when the 'Change advanced settings' box has been checked on the Misc. page.\par
In Steem you can change almost all options live, that is, when the emulator is running. This is handy but not guaranteed to work all the time. After all, buffers are created, moved, deleted on the fly, and changing an option could alter a buffer while it is being used. This is especially the case when the \i Emulation thread\i0  option is checked: you really have two threads running on the same data set, and there are no critical sections.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Machine\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\expndtw0\fs24\lang2057 ST Model\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 The STE was the better computer but most programs were coded with the older STF in mind. \par
You can change this option during emulation but at your risk (ST crash likely). Notice that the auto-config feature (see below) doesn't operate while Steem is running (in case you just want to compare video output for instance). \par
In Steem, the STFM is like an STF with bus error on LINEWID access (\i Colorz\i0 , \i Fuzion 77 & 78\i0 , \i Imagination\i0 , \i No Cooper\i0 ...). A stupid option!\par
In Steem, the Mega ST is like an STFM with a blitter and a Ricoh real time clock. Its CPU clock is different (8010613Hz instead of 8021247Hz).\par
If you use a US TOS, the CPU clock will also be different on the STF (8010600Hz) and the STE (8053976Hz): those are the NTSC variants.\par
The observant could remark that one model is sadly missing. The Mega STE isn't emulated for the moment.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 ST CPU speed (hack)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This option can boost the speed of the emulated ST, to improve those painfully slow games that were released. \par
The ST's CPU ran at 8 megahertz but here you can whack it up to get things going faster. A couple of points: setting the CPU speed above 8MHz will cause the emulator to run _slower_, because it has more processing to do for each screen displayed. It will also cause many ST programs to crash/not work properly, because they rely on the processor running at the correct speed. \par
If you want really high speed (512mhz and above), you may prefer the 64bit build because it has larger cycle counters that make it safer.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Memory size\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Here you can select how much memory will be available in the virtual ST. \par
The most compatible choice is generally 1MB for STF, 4MB for STE.\par
12MB includes 8MB of alt-RAM as on the MonSTer board. A driver and an appropriate TOS (e.g. 2.06) are necessary to use that RAM.\par
Please note that 14MB wasn't supported on the ST range of computers without special hacks, so not everything will work with that option selected. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Cartridge (advanced)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Steem can emulate ROM cartridges using cartridge images, here you can choose to insert one. For details how to make a cartridge image see the "cart image howto.txt" file that comes with Steem.\par
Few cartridges were actually available.\par
'Switch off' makes the cartridge transparent (or crashes Steem if I forgot a bug). It's the same as if you removed the cartridge.\par
'Freeze' emulates the freeze button of the \i Multiface\i0  and \i Ultimate Ripper\i0  cartridges. For the latter, you need to select the appropriate Port connexion.\par
If you insert the (fake) MV16 cartridge image, Steem will play the samples in the original B.A.T game. Steem also emulates playback of the Replay 16 cartridge.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Spurious interrupts (advanced)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 A spurious interrupt occurs when the CPU is interrupted but the interrupt request (IRQ) clears right after the CPU started its interrupt routine (IACK). On the ST, this may happen with the MFP. Emulation of this is tricky, that's why you can disable it. Especially if you suddenly see 24 bombs on your screen. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Fine tune CPU clock (hack)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 It's a hack but legit as some ST have different clocks.\par
Internally, it really changes the MFP timer clock compared with the CPU.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 ST Video\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\expndtw0\fs24\lang2057 Monitor\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 The monitor type can be \i Colour\i0  (for ST low and medium resolutions) or \i Monochrome\i0  (for ST high resolution). \par
\par
It was an important choice on the ST, because only the appropriate monitor could display such or such resolution. Like the ST, Steem runs in one or the other mode. You can change the monitor type on the fly (it rarely does something good, generally a reset, so careful).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Extended monitors (hack)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Also available are extended monitors; these are larger screens than a standard ST could manage but are achieved by some tinkering with the ST operating system. The only programs that have any chance of working with extended monitors are GEM applications (windows/menu bars), all other programs will crash or make a mess of the screen (there is nothing that can be done about that). Most GEM apps will fail too, but some will work and allow you to fit more on the screen than anyone could ever need! NOTE: Extended monitors only work with TOS versions above 1.02, also if you use a 4-plane resolution (e.g. 800x600x4) the ST can get very confused if it tries to change to medium resolution, so try to avoid it. You have to do a cold reset of the ST before any changes to this option take effect.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Borders\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Here you can choose whether you want to see the ST borders, and which size.\par
Some games (and quite a lot of demos) use a technique called "overscan" to display graphics in the borders, that's one reason you might want to see them.\par
\b DirectDraw.\b0  The border option affects the fullscreen mode: with borders on, Steem displays fullscreen in the 800x600 screen resolution (flip screen or straight blit modes).\par
\par
Steem offers no less than 4 modes:\par
\f5                   Resolution     Low       Medium     High\par
  Border  \par
  Off                         320x200    640x200   640x400\par
  Normal                      384x270    768x270   768x540    \par
  Large                       412x275    826x275      -\par
  Max                         416x283    832x283      -\par
\f1\par
Why various sizes, while other emulators only offer one? \par
There are many reasons:\par
- Bigger display sizes in Steem use various tricks and hacks and it's always "dangerous", so we keep the original size available. Palette change timings were especially trouble during development.\par
- There's a performance hit for larger displays.\par
- Not all real monitors display the full border, in particular modern LCD screens or the original Atari monitors would typically display the same borders as Steem does in normal mode, therefore it is realistic.\par
- Normal size may be merciful when the program displays trash in the border, typically because the programmer couldn't see it (see above).\par
- Only the normal border makes sense for monochrome emulation.\par
- Most programs, including games, don't use the border at all, and they shouldn't as this is beyond specs.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 ST Aspect Ratio\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 The typical ST screen's picture was vertically stretched, this option emulates that.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Scanlines\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Option 'Scanlines' makes Steem skip every other horizontal line; this is quicker than doubled lines but looks pretty ugly to some people. To others, it may be part of the emulation. Some people insist on crisp scanlines (one every two), others want filters and interpolation... In Steem there's no support for those filters imitating old monitors, mainly because the results aren't convincing (IMO)!\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 VSync\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 See Display.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Overscan options (advanced)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\b\f1\fs22 Hardware Overscan\b0\par
Steem can emulate two hardware overscan circuits, either \i Lacescan\i0  or \i Autoswitch\i0 . You need appropriate ST drivers. For technical reasons those devices weren't available on the STE.\par
\par
\b Software Overscan\par
\b0 There is a trade-off between emulation accuracy and performance.\par
\par
\b None\b0 : Normal video output, most video tricks (abusing the GLUE, the MMU, the Shifter*), generally called "Shifter tricks", are not emulated as there is no overscan check during emulation. This is actually enough for most programs, including most games, as overscan wasn't part of the ST specification, but many demos won't display correctly. Who watches demos anyway, right?\par
\f6\fs18 *: GLU(E): General Logic Unit; MMU: Memory Management Unit; Shifter: combines and displays video pixels\par
\f1\fs22\par
\b High-level (C2)\b0 : Efficient emulation using knowledge of often used Shifter tricks. It should run almost all games and demos. \par
\par
\b Low-level (C3)\b0 : Directly emulates the video chips, a plugin is necessary (not publicly available at the time of this writing). This should run every trick known or not.\par
\par
Warning: for technical reasons, just displaying this option page causes an internal update of video emulation! It could possibly cause glitches if emulation is running.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Wakeup options (advanced)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This is a very technical point, related to variable latency in some electronic chips. Normally you'll use these options only if the display of some demo isn't correct without (see Hints). \par
\par
You can adjust the wakeup settings for the GLU(E) (Advanced, STF-only) and for the Shifter.\par
\par
The GLU wakeup option allows you to choose one of the 4 wake states of the STF. On the STE, the value is 1 and can't be changed.\par
\par
The Shifter wakeup option changes the precise cycle when the pixel is matched to the palette. If it isn't what the program expects, you can see some artefacts on Spectrum 512 pictures (blame the ST and the programmers for that, not the emulator!) The default (0) should be most compatible.\par
\par
\i Random on boot\i0  randomises those wakeups so that you get the delightful surprise as on real hardware.\par
\par
\i Unstable Shifter\i0  is used for some aspects of high-level (C2) or low-level (C3) software overscan emulation. \par
C2: Option needed to emulate the \i beeshift\i0  effect and some other cases (\i Overdrive/Dragon\i0  for instance).\par
C3: Likelier to get Shifter bands and other funny glitches if you change the wakeup!\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Frequency (hack)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Funny option to change the frequency if you don't like the current one. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Option fast blitter (hack)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 No timing cycles are counted for blitter operation. Should make the system more responsive but it's bad for programs that depend on precise timings.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Note: Recording the video\tab\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Although you can assign a shortcut to internal ST video recording (DirectDraw builds only), this isn't recommended as it is far too slow. It is better to use a third-party tool or Windows 10's own recorder (Windows key + G), which efficiently produces MP4 files.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 TOS\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 TOS officially stands for \i The Operating System\i0 .\par
\par
Including the BIOS, the GEM graphic environment and other layers, the full OS, except on very early models (also emulated), was printed on ROM chips. You need an image of one of those roms to use Steem.\par
\par
Generally, TOS 1.02 is the most compatible for STF mode, although TOS 1.04 may be preferred for hard disk emulation; and TOS 1.62 for STE mode. \par
Some rare programs prefer another version (check Hints file).\par
People report trouble with TOS 2.X, but before debugging we really must be sure it wouldn't do the same on real hardware. Remember there's no specific Mega STE emulation in Steem.\par
\par
1985: TOS 1.00 (ST/STM/STF) - original ROM version\par
1986: TOS 1.02 (STM/STF/STFM/Mega ST) - blitter support\par
1989: TOS 1.04 (STF/STFM/Mega ST) - coloured Atari logo, better disk I/O, many bugfixes, faster.\par
1990: TOS 1.06 (STE) - STE hardware support\par
1991: TOS 1.62 (STE) - bugfixed version of above\par
1990: TOS 2.05 (Mega STE) - new desktop, customizable icons, HD disk support\par
1991: TOS 2.06 (Mega STE) - bugfixed version of above, support for future hardware. It could also work on a heavily modified STF (emulated in Steem).\par
TOS3.0X TT\par
TOS4.0X Falcon\par
\par
\b US TOS versions \b0\par
Using a United States TOS causes games to be run in the NTSC screen mode (60Hz). This is okay emulation-wise but a lot of ST games and demos do not work in this screen mode, and often just crash or act oddly rather than telling you why. We recommend that American users of Steem use UK TOSs for games and demos, the only time a US version is required is for word processing, due to tiny differences between the US and UK keyboards. \par
\par
\b TOS 1.06 and 1.62 UK\b0\par
Watch out, before Steem came along most copies of these TOSs were corrupt (because no emulator could test them properly). If you have problems with this version try downloading a new copy.\par
Remark: Because of this problem, when Steem recognises an UK TOS file as correct, it is listed in green.\par
\par
\b TOS 1.00\par
\b0 Is really bad, try to avoid using it unless a program insists on it (some really old ones do).\par
\par
\b Language\b0\par
Some localised version of the TOS may be necessary for some programs.\par
If you have some trouble with a program, you may give it a try.\par
\par
\b EmuTOS\b0\par
EmuTOS is a GEMDOS compatible operating system for Atari ST series computers. It is made from Digital Research's GPLed original sources and is a free and open source replacement for common TOS images for Atari ST emulators. It hasn't the same functions and compatibility as regular TOS.\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://sourceforge.net/projects/emutos/ }}{\fldrslt{http://sourceforge.net/projects/emutos/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Keyboard/Mouse\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\expndtw0\fs24\lang2057 Keyboard\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Here you can configure the keyboard. This is an area that many people have problems with because most non-English PC keyboards are vastly different from their ST counterparts. The important thing is that your PC keyboard language, TOS language and ST keyboard language all match, that gives you a chance of having the right characters appear for the right keys. If keyboard language is set to certain languages then the "Shift and alternate correction" option will become available. When checked this makes Steem do its best to get round the differences between ST and PC keyboard layouts by fooling the ST into thinking you are pressing keys you aren't. This works well for GEM programs but it could cause problems for games and any other program that reads the keyboard directly. \par
The last choice in the language list, \i Mapping file\i0 , allows you to select an ini file that contains key definitions. Definitions are included for the German and the French keyboards, which should be the most used beside English. Also included are definitions to use US or UK keyboard on UK or US TOS, it could be handy.\par
The point of the feature is to allow you to create your own file in case you're not satisfied with Steem's hardcoded mapping.\par
The file format is as follows. \par
\cf5\f7\fs20\lang1033 # = comment, at start or end of line\par
entry format: 5 fields, each followed with a ; and return\par
1;22;33;44;\par
1: PC key to type (1 character)\par
2: ANSI code of PC key to type (2 characters)\par
3: Alt (a) and Shift (s) modifiers of PC key to type, if any (2 characters)\par
4: ST scancode, hexadecimal without header (2 characters)\par
5: Alt (a) and Shift (s) modifiers of ST key (2 characters)\par
The length of each entry must be the same, insert spaces where appropriate\par
The ; separator must end each field including the last one\par
Empty lines allowed\par
You may type the PC character, the ANSI code, or both. If there's a code,\par
Steem uses it. If not it uses the character. Both ANSI and UTF-8 encoded\par
characters should work, but the code, if any, must be ANSI (Windows-1252\par
actually), not UTF-8.\par
When you need to press shift or alternate (Gr) on the PC, field 1 contains\par
the 1st character of the key, not the character you want to see.\par
For instance, on a German keyboard, you need to press Alt Gr and < to\par
get |. The entry is: <;  ;a ;2b;s ;\par
In Steem, you don't use Alt Gr, you use Alt instead, like on a ST.\par
Both ANSI and ST scancode are two digit hexadecimal numbers.\par
\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057\par
Please share it if you get it working. If you can't get the keyboard to work properly then the only option is to manually remap the keys using shortcuts (see below). The file may be in Windows-1252 or UTF-8 format.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Capture mouse\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 By default Steem grabs the mouse when running, even if you don't really need it. This behaviour isn't always what you would want, so use the option to change it. When it's off, Steem will capture the mouse only when you click in the window. You may use keyboard shortcuts to grab and release the mouse. Both keys Pause/Break and F11 toggle mouse capture. Auto means that each time you use F11 to grab or free the mouse, the mouse will remain free or be captured accordingly on the next runs.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 VM-friendly mouse\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This option helps when Steem is run in a virtual machine (works with VirtualBox). Another method is used to poll the mouse, and the cursor isn't bounded to the window frame. Some people actually prefer this way, even without a virtual machine.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Mouse speed\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 There's also a mouse speed dial.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Keyboard click (hack)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 If this click makes you mad, you can disable it directly in Steem (or through the ST Control Panel... when it is available). In some rare cases it should remain enabled though (see Hints).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Low level 6301 emulation (C1)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Using code by Arne Riiber and doc by Stephane Catala - Belzebub / ST Connexion, Steem features low-level emulation of the HD6301 \i intelligent keyboard\i0  (IKBD) chip. The main goal was to be able to run some (very rare!) demos reprogramming that chip but it does more than that now, being better than high level emu in some cases. When you change this option, you should reset the ST. In case you're curious, the titles that reprogram the chip are: \i Audio Sculpture\i0 , \i Dragonnels\i0 , \i Froggies over the Fence\i0 , \i Transbeauce 2\i0 .\par
\par
The option also commands ACIA (the MC6850 chip) improvements, mainly more precise timings. Both the IKBD and the MIDI connector use a 6850 to communicate with the CPU, though at different speeds.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 I/O Ports\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 This page configures the emulated ST's link to outside hardware. There is a section for each port on the ST, MIDI, parallel and serial, as well as a section for dongles (Special adapters). To set up a port select one of the options from the box next to "Connect To". When you do the section will fill up with options related to the connection you chose.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 MIDI Device\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 When you select this you must then select the PC MIDI device you want the ST's messages to be sent to and the PC MIDI device you want to be able to send data to the ST. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Parallel Port (LPT)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This allows you to connect an ST port to one of your PC's parallel ports. The only option is to choose which one. Warning: This may not work on all versions of Windows. See the FAQ for information on printing from Steem.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 COM Port\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 By selecting this option, you can connect an ST port to one of your PC's COM ports. Again, just select the required port. Warning: This may not work on all versions of Windows.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 File\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Using this option, you can send all output from an ST port to a file. Click on the "Change File" button to open the file selector where you can select the output file (you can create a new one by typing in a new name and clicking "Open"). The "Reset Current File" button will delete everything that is currently in the file. You can't use a file for input.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Loopback (Output->Input)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Selecting this will cause anything that is sent to the port to be then received by the port, what use that is I really don't know!\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Special adapters\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Some (simple) dongles are emulated. You can select one in the Ports page. For joystick port dongles, option C1 ('Low-level emulation' on the Keyboard/Mouse option page) must be checked.\par
This option also covers some other adapters:\par
-Pro Sound Designer: soundcard used by \i Wings of Death\i0  and \i Lethal Xcess\i0 .\par
-Switches for Ultimate Ripper Cartridge and Multiface ST.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 MIDI\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Here are some options that affect the PC side of Steem's MIDI emulation.\par
Remember that the ST side is also affected by ACIA emulation (Keyboard/Mouse).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Volume\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Not that useful but here nevertheless. It won't work for all devices.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Allow running status for output/input\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Normal MIDI messages are made up of one status byte that describes the message and then one or two data bytes. If a program wants to send the same message again it can leave off the status byte and just send the data. By default, Steem doesn't allow this and adds the status byte itself if it has been omitted, but this could cause problems to programs that require a very high transfer rate. \par
These options mean that running status will be passed on to Windows which has to decide what to do with it, so if you are having problems with MIDI tempo you can try this.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 System Exclusive Buffers\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 The number of system exclusive buffers affect MIDI when it is sending/receiving many small system exclusive messages quickly. If the number of buffers is too small, it is possible for there to be so little time between messages that Steem is still busy with all the buffers when a new sysex message arrives (and therefore part of it gets lost). If you find some MIDI program having input or output problems that sound like this it's worth a try increasing the number of buffers, something like 6 should do the job for almost anything. The size of the buffers allows you to choose the maximum length of message Steem can send or receive. This is important if you are transferring large memory banks from the device to the ST and vice-versa. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Input speed\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This option allows you to slow down the speed Steem feeds any received data from the MIDI device to the ST. Due to restrictions of Windows Steem sends all data as fast as possible to the ST regardless of the speed it was actually sent by the device, but some ST programs can't handle that. If you have problems with receiving bank dumps it might be an idea if you slow this down a bit. Also related to this is the shortcut action "Pause until next SysEx", this can get around time-outs on ST programs waiting for a bank dump to start. See the shortcuts section for details of how to assign this action to a key/combination of keys.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 General\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\expndtw0\fs24\lang2057 Run speed\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Sometimes you will find a game/program that isn't significantly affected by changing CPU speed, it is still too slow. In that case you can use this option to change the speed Steem runs and make sure a program speeds up (or even slows down if you want). The disadvantage is that sound doesn't work above 105% or below 80%.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Slow motion speed\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This option determines how fast Steem will run when you have slow motion turned on (right-click on the play button).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Maximum fast forward speed\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Using this option, you can limit Steem's speed, fastest isn't always best (you can find you have zipped through the bit you wanted to see).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Show pop-up hints\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This little option toggles those pop-up hints on and off, now you've read the readme you don't really need them.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Make Steem high priority\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 When this option is ticked Steem will get first use of the CPU ahead of other applications. This means Steem will still run smoothly even if you start doing something in another window at the same time, but everything else will run slower.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Emulation thread\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This option could make Steem more responsive. Steem gets a tad more system resources for its supplementary thread. When it's checked, you may change any other options you like live (emulation running), but there's no guarantee it will not crash! Noticeably, with the apart thread, emulation isn't stopped when you move any Steem window.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Pause emulation when inactive\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 When this option is checked Steem will pause emulation when you switch to another program. Steem uses some PC CPU time when running which may slow other programs down, if you are switching between programs regularly you may want to use this option.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Disable system keys when running\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This option allows you to send certain key combinations that are used by Windows to the ST instead. When it is checked Alt+Tab, Ctrl+Esc and Ctrl+Alt+Delete will go to the ST instead of to the PC. Although Steem is very stable this option could cause a bit of a disaster if Steem stops responding for any reason, you won't be able to shut it down with Ctrl+Alt+Delete, so for safety reasons it is best only to use this option when you really need it. \par
Unfortunately, this option doesn't always work in fullscreen mode. Depending on your version of Windows, it may not be possible to capture certain key combinations - you can use shortcuts (see below) to trigger the keys you want from other keys. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Start emulation on mouse click\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 When checked clicking on Steem's main window will start emulation.\par
           \par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Sound\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\expndtw0\fs24\lang2057 Sound output\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This can be "None" to make no sound at all, "Line" for unfiltered sound (the YM2149 emulation anti-aliasing filter is another option), "TV" or "Monitor" for sound filtered in such a way as to be similar to the output of those. Notice that those filters apply only to YM2149 sound and that if you use low-level YM2149 emulation (default), those filters aren't recommended anyway.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Mute sound\par
\cf0\f3\fs22 You can change it live, hopefully it won't crash.\par
\cf4\f2\fs24\par
Mute sound when inactive\par
\cf0\f3\fs22 Sound will stop when you're busy with other apps, and play again when Steem has the focus.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\f1\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Device\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Sound Driver lets you configure which DirectSound driver Steem will use, Default is usually the best option.\par
These options allow you to tweak the sound output, firstly volume. Next is frequency. If your soundcard isn't able to deliver one of the higher rates, Steem will settle for the maximum available. It makes a difference in some cases where the emulated PSG vibrates faster than 22KHz. It does happen, as the max PSG frequency is 125KHz! It can cause horrible aliasing. However, Steem includes an anti-aliasing filter, so 44,1KHz should be fine. \par
Note that 56KHz is precisely 56066 (the maximum, and rarely used rate for STE sound), 25KHz is precisely 25033 and 22KHz is 22050. The next option is format. We highly recommend 16bit stereo.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 YM2149 Sound\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\par
The YM2149 was the original sound chip of the ST.\par
\par
\i On\i0  is a hack, on a real ST you can't disable it.\par
\par
\i Low-level\i0  activates a lower level YM2149 emulation inspired by MAME (thx Couriersud). When it's checked, Steem also uses a big sample table of the chip made up by ljbk based on measurements on an actual STF (which includes filters). Thanks to this accuracy of PSG emulation is much improved. The sound is more saturated, which is correct.\par
\par
You can then set the anti-alias filter frequency, it should be somewhere around 10KHz (the ST was no CD player). Totally right turns it off.\par
\par
When 'low-level' isn't checked, Steem's original emulation runs. It is not too bad and uses less CPU. You may then choose a filter type.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Digital sound\par
\par
\cf0\f1\fs22 Digital sound is only available on the STE. It is generally called DMA sound.\par
\cf4\f2\fs24\par
\cf0\i\f1\fs22 On\i0  is a hack, on a real ST you can't disable it.\cf4\f2\fs24\par
\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Unfortunately, emulation of the ultra-cheap Microwire tone controller is rather primitive. To avoid clicks, volume changes are slowed down unless option Hacks is unchecked (\i Sea of Colour, Talk Talk 2\i0 ).\par
\par
The YM-12db setting does what the STE should but doesn't when asked to, that is attenuate the screaming YM2149 sound so that you may hear the STE samples better. It's a hack.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Drive sound\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Yes! This SainT feature is imitated in Steem too. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Record\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 These options allow you to record Steem's output to a wav file. Clicking on the red button begins recording, clicking on it again (or stopping emulation) will end recording. You can choose the name and location of the wav file to output by clicking on choose.\par
Alternatively, Steem can save a YM file. This is usable by STSound and other utilities. The file is uncompressed.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Display\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\expndtw0\fs24\lang2057 Frameskip\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This is a very useful option for slower processors. Drawing the screen takes quite a bit of PC CPU time so skipping frames is a very effective way to speed things up to the same speed as a real ST. Auto frameskip makes Steem skip up to 8 frames dependant on how fast it is running. \par
If possible, 'None' is the best option because auto frameskip always induces some glitches.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 VSync\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This version of vertical synchronisation is for windowed mode. \par
\b DirectDraw\b0 : Steem uses some CPU power to adjust speed to the display's refresh rate. \par
\b Direct3D\b0 : Speed is adjusted at no CPU cost by the system.\par
Speed adjustment means that emulation speed isn't realistic anymore if the display refresh rate significantly differs from the ST rate. Unfortunately most ST games and demos run at 50Hz.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Triple Buffering (DirectDraw)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This used to be useful to eliminate "tearing" or "ghosting", at the price of quite higher CPU use in windowed mode.\par
Compositing, a feature introduced in Windows Vista and enforced (can't disable) in Windows 8, could interfere with this. Compositing does its own triple buffering, without CPU use penalty.\par
Generally, this option isn't necessary .\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Lock window size\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 When it's checked you can't change the size of the window by dragging the borders so that you won't be able to sabotage Steem's nice display. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Lock aspect ratio\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 With this you may drag all you want, but the window should keep more or less the same proportions (to spare code, it's not perfect). If it isn't checked, you're free to change the aspect ratio of the emulated screen (also see ST Video option 'ST Aspect Ratio').\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Window size\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 These options allow you to configure exactly the size of Steem's window in the various ST resolutions. First is the option of whether Steem should automatically resize its window when the ST resolution changes or when borders turn on or off. Below that you can set the sizes that Steem should use. With some sizes you have the choice between \i Stretch \i0 and \i No Stretch\i0 .\par
\par
\i Stretch \i0 makes Steem use the video card to convert the image from the ST output size to the size of the window. This is generally the quickest option, though most video cards will blur ("alpha blit") the stretched image, an effect which some people don't like. \par
Yet for medium resolution, it is a better emulation of real monitors than a neat picture.\par
\i No Stretch\i0  will make Steem draw the ST screen larger in order to avoid stretching. \par
\par
WARNING: On some prehistoric video cards making the window size bigger than the real size (the first option) will slow down emulation considerably.\par
\par
When automatic resizing is off you may find it difficult to get the window to a precise size, making ugly lines appear; to help there are some options on the main window's system menu (accessed by clicking on Steem's icon in its title bar, or by pressing Alt and the space bar).\par
Normal size will resize the window to the size you have selected for the current ST screen resolution. Restore aspect ratio will maintain the current size of the window but will alter it so that its aspect ratio matches that of the selected size for the ST resolution. Also on this menu is Bigger and Smaller Window, they are a quick way to resize the window without going to the Options dialog, and border settings, which also affects the size of the window. \par
As well as all that there's an "Always on Top" option that keeps the main Steem window above all others.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Notice: Scaling\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Steem ignores Windows scaling. Windows 10 handles it pretty well and scales Steem like the rest. If you prefer a crisper (but smaller) picture, you can set the DPI properties of Steem yourself (right click on the icon, compatibility, high DPI).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Screenshots\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 These options configure where screenshots are saved. \par
\par
You may also choose the format options here.\par
\par
The last option is \i Minimum size screenshots\i0 , when checked this will make Steem always save screenshots at the smallest size possible for the resolution, this is handy for people taking screenshots to put on a website.\par
\par
Warning: Sometimes this might make a mess as Steem will have to shrink the picture, but this is never a problem if you are using \i Stretch\i0  mode for drawing (see the Fullscreen options and Display/Window Size options).\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 On Screen Display (OSD)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 The Steem OSD is there to look pretty and give information, it can be configured to suit your needs.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Disk access light\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This is a small light that appears in the top right of the screen, it emulates the light that was on the right hand side of a real ST, except that the led is green for reading, red for writing, yellow for hard disk. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Drive track info\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Alternatively, this will display current drive, side, track and sector, like those devices some people had attached to their ST. Track is the drive cylinder, not the WD1772 TR register.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Logo\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 You can configure how long the 'Steem' logo will be displayed after you start emulation.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Speed bar\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 The blue bar in the bottom-left corner indicates the current speed of the emulator compared to the refresh rate of the monitor on a real ST - if the bar is full it is drawing at the ST sync rate. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 State icons\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 These little icons tell you whether the emulator is running, fast-forwarding, sound recording or just stopped.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 CPU speed indicator\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This icon appears next to the speed bar when you have ST CPU Speed set to more than 8 megahertz.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Scrolling messages\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 After a while, they're not so useful anymore and can be distracting, so you can turn this off.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Time\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 If you ever wonder how much time you waste on Steem, this is the control for you. Mercifully it resets at each cold reset.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Debug info\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Some information will be displayed on the top left corner of the window:\par
\lang1036 B\tab bombs (CPU exception) - sometimes because the ST program crashes, sometimes as part of normal execution\par
T\tab CPU trace\par
\lang2057 O\tab video overscan (if border is off)\par
OVR \tab keyboard ACIA overrun\par
S\tab slow-down\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 FPS (Frames Per Second)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 With this frame rate counter, Steem can reveal the hard reality about some of those games.\par
It's not guaranteed to work with everything due to the technique used, based on VBASE. Also, a frame is counted as soon as one pixel is different. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Disable on screen display\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This will disable all elements of the on-screen display, it is useful if you are taking screenshots.   \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 No OSD on stop\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\lang6153 This helps the \i Statistics\i0  colour counter, otherwise OSD colours will be included. Stop is then delayed by one frame.\lang2057\par
      \par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Fullscreen Mode\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 A button in this page allows one to toggle between windowed and fullscreen modes. Alternatively, you may use the 'maximize' window control to enter fullscreen, if the 'Fullscreen on Maximize' option is checked (this is Steem's original way). If the 'Fullscreen GUI' option is checked, you can leave fullscreen mode by clicking on the blue icon (second from the right) of the interface. If it isn't, stopping emulation (using F12 or ctrl-break or a shortcut of your choice) will go back to your desktop. You may also assign shortcuts to enter or toggle fullscreen mode. And Alt-Enter also works, when emulation is stopped.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Fullscreen GUI  \par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 The fullscreen GUI is handy if it works. No guarantee. Blame Microsoft and video card drivers for all bugs. \b Warning\b0 : As of this writing, it doesn't work well in D3D builds for true fullscreen.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Fullscreen on Maximize\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 You can change Steem's default behaviour on hitting the maximize button. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Drawing mode (DirectDraw)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This is a bit of a confusing option, you really don't need to know what the possible settings mean, but which is best will be different depending on your computer's hardware, try them all to see which is quickest. "Stretch blit" makes Steem draw small and then use the video card to stretch the resulting image to fill the screen, at your chosen resolution. This can be slow on very old, bad video cards, and on many video cards it causes the image to be slightly blurred ("alpha-blitted"), which makes it better resemble the bad televisions usually plugged into STs. If this blurring annoys you, switch to the first modes. In those modes, colour pixels are doubled and Steem uses the 800x600 resolution if borders are displayed, 640x480 if not.\par
\par
Screen Flip is not recommended for monochrome monitor emulation if the screen refresh rate is inferior to 71Hz.\par
\par
For Stretch and Windowed Borderless modes, the Aspect ratio option is active. \b Screen\b0 : resolution of your PC monitor, \b correct\b0 : magnified resolution of the ST, \b crisp\b0 : could be (much) smaller but no distortion.\par
In Windowed Borderless mode, Steem uses the native resolution and its own calculations of the drawing zone. In medium and high resolutions, the picture could be crisp but small, or big but distorted. It's because there are already many pixels in these ST resolutions. Protip: Try with border off.\par
If you use smaller PC resolutions than your screen can display (anything but Windowed Borderless  mode), your hardware (video card, screen) does the shrinking, generally better than Steem itself.\par
\par
All true fullscreen modes require some time to adjust to the settings. It's a Windows feature.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Scanline Grille\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 When you are in \i Straight Blt\i0  or \i Screen Flip\i0  drawing mode, \i Scanline Grille\i0  makes every other vertical line black, this can make the display a bit dark but it can also make Steem run quicker. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Use 640x400 (DirectDraw)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This option makes the screen switch to 640x400 pixels when you run in fullscreen. This means the ST display will fill the entire screen instead of having small borders to the top and bottom. You can only use 640x400 mode when borders are set to 'Off', and if it is available on your video card.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Synchronisation (advanced)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 When the PC and ST are displaying a different number of frames per second you can get jerkiness and wobbling that didn't appear on a real ST. Using these options you can hopefully put that right. Vsync to PC display tells Steem to wait for the PC to be ready before it displays its next frame. \par
To make this option work better you should try and make the PC refresh rate the same or double the ST one. The ST used 50Hz (PAL), 60Hz (NTSC) and 71Hz (Mono). Hardware (video cards and monitors) that displays at 50Hz is now rare.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Triple Buffering (advanced)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 One more buffer is used in video rendering. It doesn't seem to make a great difference. It depends on the video card abilities, it could fail on some systems. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Direct3D builds\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 With a D3D build, true fullscreen on a secondary monitor is possible, that is, when it works.\par
The D3D builds have slightly different fullscreen advanced options.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s4\sb40\cf2\i\f2\fs24 Windowed Borderless Mode\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\i0\f1\fs22 This 'fake' fullscreen mode bypasses most other settings. You lose the benefits of true fullscreen, such as refresh rate choice, triple buffering and better performance (Steem isn't as demanding as a 3D game so no worry), but it may be more compatible with a variety of computers. It is also faster to go in and out.\par
It is the mode used by default (if advanced settings aren't enabled). There's no refresh rate setting, it will be the same as Windows.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s4\sb40\cf2\i\f2\fs24 Mode\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\i0\f1\fs22 This lists all D3D 32bit fullscreen "modes" that are available on your video card. You just select the one you like. Note that whether a mode works or not also depends on your display and your other options. Only some monitors will display 320x200 or 320x240 properly.\par
On a LCD screen, you may go for the maximal resolution (the same as your desktop). Steem will then compute how to display the biggest possible ST screen with a perfect aspect ratio (no distortion, whatever the hardware).\par
However, the video card may display better at lower resolutions, especially with scanlines on. 800x600 is a good choice in many cases.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s4\sb40\cf2\i\f2\fs24 Crisp rendering\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\i0\f1\fs22 You get neat but blocky pixels. Many people like it. Don't use this in high resolution. It may not work well with scanlines, according to the mode (resolution).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s4\sb40\cf2\i\f2\fs24 Use desktop refresh rate\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\i0\f1\fs22 This will bypass the Hz setting in Mode, using the current desktop refresh rate instead. It can be useful if the video card (NVIDIA comes to mind) can force a refresh rate that is not officially supported by the display (or its driver). \par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Colour Control\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Some PC monitors/video cards can be very dark, this can make the ST display unrealistic, or even make some things that should be visible black. Here are some simple options to fix this problem, just fiddle with the two values until in the colour bar display you can see colours above the number 2 and the colours above 15 and 16 are a different shade. Sometimes other colours on the screen can make this difficult, to get around that click on the image of the bars to make it fill the whole screen.\par
Steem also includes controls for gamma correction, one slider per RGB colour. \par
Comparing with a CRT display, I couldn't confirm that Steem needs gamma correction, but it's always a handy (or fun) setting.\par
  \par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Configurations\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 This page allows you to store many different Steem configurations and use them when you like. To make a new file containing the current Steem configuration click on "Save New Configuration". You can then restore it at any time by selecting it and clicking on "Load Configuration". Be careful though as your configuration before you load another one will be lost forever. \par
Below "Load Configuration" and "Save Over Configuration" is a list of sections that affect loading configurations, you can enable or disable each section. This allows you to only load specific options in Steem and keep other options that you don't want changed. As in macros (see above) you can organise all your configurations using the Configuration folder display.   \par
You can set up some configurations for STF, STE, Mega ST colour or monochrome, with GEMDOS or ACSI hard drive emulation, etc., and then select one in one click rather than manually changing all the settings.\par
They can be auto-selected when you change the ST model, if the misc. option 'Default ST configs' is checked.\par
If you want to change startup options, such as starting in full screen, you should first select the config then change the option.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Record Input\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 This is a handy feature that will allow you to record sequences of input in to the ST and play them back later. At the top there is a display of your macro folder: each macro is stored in a file with the extension stmac, and they are displayed here (if you have any). To record a macro, first click on "New Macro", name it something snazzy and then click on the big red record button. \par
Now go to the main Steem window, start emulation and do some sort of input (move the mouse, press a key, move a joystick). When you have recorded what you want to go back to the macro display and click on the record button again to turn it off. Don't worry about doing this too quickly, Steem doesn't start recording until some input is received and it will cut off any time on the end that doesn't have any input. Now you can replay the actions you recorded by pressing the green play button (next to the record button). \par
\par
You can have as many macro files as space on your hard drive will allow. \par
This might mean they get a bit difficult to find on the list, so you can organise them into folders using the macro folder display. Just right click to create a new folder and drag appropriate macros in there. You can also right click on the bold "Macros" folder and choose to open it in Windows explorer if you prefer to use that for your organising.\par
\par
There are 2 options that affect how macros work:\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Maximum mouse speed\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This affects recording and playing macros. Some ST programs won't accept really fast mouse movements as ST mice couldn't generally move very far in a short time. This option lets you allow for this problem by configuring the maximum speed for each macro individually.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Playback event delay\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 For most macros you will want your actions to be played back as quickly as possible (for instance in the case of clicking on a shoot button in a game). \par
This option allows you to configure how long Steem will wait between input changes, as some programs won't accept lots of very quick inputs. If speed isn't an issue then you can always set this to "As Recorded", then playing the macro will replay the recorded events at the speed you recorded them at.\par
  \par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Startup\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 You need to quit and restart Steem for those options to have effect.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Restore Previous State\fs22\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1 You can choose to have Steem remember the state of the ST when it quits, so you can return to what you were doing next time you run it. Below the option is a box where you can type in the filename that will be used to save the state, this file will be saved in the directory Steem.exe is in.\par
\par
Hint: sometimes, auto.sts gets corrupted and makes Steem fail, possibly crash. The solution is to delete auto.sts.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Start in Fullscreen Mode\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 If DirectX is enabled and working, then you can make Steem fill the whole screen when it first runs.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Draw direct to video memory\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 To be able to display a picture on your monitor Steem has to get it to your video card's memory, it can do this in two ways. Firstly, it can draw it direct to the video memory, it does that when this option is on. This is generally the fastest way to draw but, on some set-ups, it may cause problems if video card access is slow. With this option off Steem will draw to your PCs system memory, this is faster but at some point, all the data will still have to be transferred to the video card. In older versions of Steem repeated accesses to video memory (to draw complex scanlines) could make it run about one fifth of the speed it should. Now when drawing direct to video memory Steem buffers complex scanlines to stop this problem, but you still may find it quicker to draw to system memory on your PC.\par
Using video memory may be, according to the computer, necessary for the following features: second monitor, fullscreen. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Hide mouse pointer when blit\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Some video cards can make a mess when the PC mouse pointer is over the Steem window, with this option on that will never happen as Steem hides the mouse before drawing to its window. This can however cause the PC mouse to flicker while Steem is running, if that is a problem try turning it off and see if your video card is one of the messy ones.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Never Use DirectDraw/DirectSound (Direct3D for the D3D build)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 If you have DirectX errors when you boot up, or DirectX doesn't work properly, then you can tell Steem to not use it. Sound doesn't work without DirectSound and drawing is slower without DirectDraw. If you are having problems, it is best to install the latest version of DirectX through Windows Update.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Run on startup\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 No need to press play.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 TRACE.txt\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 If checked, Steem will write some debugging info in a file in its running directory. The Debugger can also write a steem.log file (it's a different option).\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Icons\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 You can customise Steem's look by altering its icons. On this page you will see a box containing all the icons, just left click on one to be able to select an ico file to replace it with. Right clicking on an icon restores it to its default, click on the "All Icons to Default" button to restore them all. You can also download icon schemes to change all or just some of Steem's icons with a single click on the "Load Icon Scheme" button, go to:\par
\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://steem.atari.st/icons.htm }}{\fldrslt{http://steem.atari.st/icons.htm\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  (link still working)\par
\par
to see what is available.   \par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 File Associations\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Windows programs love to associate and de-associate themselves with file types. This dialog allows you to choose which files you want to associate with Steem. Just click the "Associate" button next to the desired files. Click again to de-associate.\par
\par
Note: if you used a previous version of Steem, you must reassociate with the current version (or rename the program 'Steem'). If you used a version before v.3.5.3, you should manually remove the associations in the registry, HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT part. This is because in newer versions, associations are recorded for each user, in older versions, they were for the computer, and you needed "administrative rights". \par
\par
Here you can also choose whether you want files to open in a new Steem window or the current Steem window when you double-click on them from Windows Explorer. \par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Misc.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Those are the 'SSE' options that don't fit in another option page.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Advanced Settings\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Many settings are confusing for newbies and will be rarely used anyway. So they are hidden by default, and enabled by this option. When you uncheck the option, some advanced settings are reset to default values. Those settings aren't changed back when you enable Advanced Settings again. There's also a button to reset everything.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Legacy toolbar\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 We changed the order of play, reset, etc. icons for the better but you may prefer the old way so there's an option for that. When this option is checked, there's no status bar.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Hacks\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This option covers two kinds of things:\par
- Convenience hacks, like accelerating STE booting.\par
- Emulation hacks, when emulation isn't perfect, yet we want the programs to run. \par
It is recommended to disable 'Hacks' only if you meet problems (and please report).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Emu detect\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Steem includes a facility to interact with ST programs that want to know what kind of emulator is there. If you uncheck the option, this facility is disabled. It's still possible to detect Steem using emulation inaccuracies, but this way is unreliable since further versions are supposed to be more accurate.\par
\par
The ST program writes $456D753F (Emu?) in both D6 and D7, and calls xbios function VSync ($25).\par
\par
Steem returns with $53544565 (STEe) in D6, $6D456E67 (mEng) in D7 and $FFC100 in A0, which is the base of secret addresses used for interaction.\par
\par
Read\par
$ffc100 version \par
$ffc102 slow motion\par
$ffc104 fast forward\par
$ffc106 Debugger present\par
$ffc107 snapshot loaded\par
$ffc108 emulation speed\par
$ffc10a average frame time \par
$ffc10c CPU cycle counter (32bit only)\par
$ffc110 time of last vbl (32bit only)\par
$ffc114 time of last hbl (32bit only)\par
$ffc118 scan_y (scanline)\par
$ffc11a write logs to printer\par
\strike $ffc11b falcon mode\par
$ffc11c falcon mode size -1 + 2 if falcon extra height\par
$ffc11d overscans fixed\par
\strike0 (Debugger only, emu detect not necessary:)\strike\par
\strike0 $ffc122 runstate\par
\par
Write\par
$ffc100 create disk image from source (effective address) string:\par
Name, Sides, TracksPerSide, SectorsPerTrack, each ending with /0\par
$ffc104 leave emu detect\par
$ffc105 set cpu speed in mhz\par
$ffc107 snapshot loaded\par
$ffc108 set run speed (in %)\par
$ffc11a write logs to ST printer (Debugger)\par
\strike $ffc11b falcon mode\par
$ffc11c falcon mode size -1 + 2 if falcon extra height\par
$ffc11d overscans fixed\par
\strike0 $ffc1f0 write source string to log (Debugger)\par
(Debugger only, emu detect not necessary:)\par
$ffc1f4 wipe log (Debugger)\par
$ffc123 trigger breakpoint (Debugger)\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Clock always correct\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 When this option is checked, the various ways the system can get the date and time will be hacked to report the PC time (the little clock in your taskbar). So that if you stop emulation for a while, you still get the correct time when you resume, and not the emulated time. This covers the Gemdos software clock, the Mega ST Ricoh clock and the 6301 keyboard chip. This option can interfere with some programs.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Default ST configs\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 If checked, Steem looks into the current configuration folder for a configuration file with exactly the same name as the ST model which you select on the Machine page, e.g. STF.ini. You need to save such a file, the best way is to go through the Configuration page where you can select which options are to be retrieved. Maybe it's best to only select \i Machine and TOS\i0  for this purpose.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32\lang1033 Disk manager\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057 This window controls all the disks on the ST, and the two boxes up the top hold the disks currently in the drives. This window is resizable.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Disk Images\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Disk images are floppy disks turned into files, this is how most programs are accessed on ST emulators. For details of how to create disk images from ST floppy disks have a look at the "disk image howto.txt" that comes with Steem. You will find most images on the internet however.\par
\par
The large box at the bottom of the disk manager window shows all the disk images in the current directory. The disk manager is like a little Explorer window, you can go into a folder by double clicking on it or by selecting it and pressing return. All disk image files, zip/rar/7z/bz2/gz/tar/arj archive files and any Windows shortcuts to those types of files are shown. \par
\par
Steem needs some DLL files to handle archive files.\par
-unzipd32.dll for zip files\par
-rar: unrar.dll.\par
-7z/bz2/gz/tar/arj: ArchiveAccess.dll\par
ArchiveAccess.dll manages zip and rar files too if the other plugins are not available to Steem.\par
\par
Steem doesn't know if some archive contains an image or not, so all archives are displayed in the Disk manager regardless, but maybe clicking on them is useless. It's up to you to sort your directories, of course. "Garbage in, garbage out."\par
\par
To insert a disk image into a drive, drag it to the box to the right of the big drive icon. To remove it from the drive just drag it back out to the directory view (or press Delete).\par
\par
If you right click in the directory view a menu will pop up allowing you to create a new standard size disk image (ST), a custom size disk image (ST, MSA or DIM), a STW disk image or an HFE (Rev.1.1) disk image. High density versions are available for ST and STW.\par
\par
Custom disk images can be up to 2 megabytes in size, although larger ones are emulated correctly (in fast mode), most TOS versions didn't support them, you may find they will only work with TOS 2.06 or maybe not at all. \par
\par
ST disk images contain raw data bytes without any meta information (so that emulators must guess the disk configuration, if it isn't correctly written on the disk image). MSA and DIM images also contain extra information. MSA images can be created on an ST using Magic Shadow Archiver. Steem can handle compressed images. DIM images can be created on an ST using \i FastCopy Pro\i0 . Steem needs all sectors.\par
\par
STW and HFE disk images include clock bits as well as data, encoded into MFM words. Those STW and HFE images are more than twice larger than ST images but allow emulating the WD1772 disk controller at a lower level and so handling special disk formats. Because they're formatted inside the emulated ST, there's no sides/tracks/sectors options. You get a raw disk full of random data, lucky you! It's up to you to format the disk exactly as you would on a ST. STW is the simplest such format. If you open a disk image in a hex editor, you will find sync marks coded as $4489. HFE is optimised for the HxC floppy emulator hardware. It's quite handy if you own such device. \par
\par
Important: if you plan to write on STW or HFE disk images, accurate disk access times (ADAT) mode is more reliable.\par
\par
Beside those ST, MSA, DIM, STW and HFE disk images Steem can create itself, it is also able to handle:\par
-STT images (read-only)\par
-STX images (read-only, need pasti.dll)\par
-IPF and CTR images created with Kryoflux hardware (read-only, need CAPSImg.dll)\par
-SCP images created with Supercard Pro hardware (read-only)\par
\par
A right click option allows you to convert DIM, MSA and ST images to STW. Make sure both drives are empty when you do that to avoid any interference.\par
\par
About STX, IPF and CTR images, as they are handled by a third-party plugin, whether they work or not is also up to this plugin. Make sure you have the last version.\par
\par
Steem directly handles SCP images, there's no plugin, so any bug should be fixed in Steem itself. This is the triumph of low-level emulation. All sorts of disk protections are handled just by transforming fluxes into bits using basic algorithms, without knowing anything of the protection. Those algorithms (part of the WD1772 emulation) were vaguely inspired by code in MESS and SPS (formerly CAPS) projects.\par
\par
STT is a Steem-specific format that is to be considered legacy. It is a sort of "STX light", it was abandoned when the STX format appeared.\par
\par
If you right click in the box to the right of the big drive icon, a context menu allows you to toggle the read-only property (important for some games), swap disks A and B (a keyboard shortcut can interfere with the game), remove the disk, or go to where the disk is stored. \par
\par
Right clicking on a disk image displays a menu with a myriad of options to allow you to organise and use your disk images. "Get Contents" is useful if the disk image is a compilation disk, selecting it will display a list of what the disk contains. "MSA Converter" is a great program that allows you to edit the contents of a disk and convert it to a different format. \par
"Properties" allows you to change the way Steem uses the disk, it is very unlikely you will have to change the setting from the default.\par
\par
You can also run config files (INI) from the disk manager.\par
\par
If you double click in some empty space of the main window, you go to the parent folder of the current one.\par
\par
If you don't want to use the Disk manager to select disk images, two shortcuts are available to use Windows' classic file selector instead.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Drive icons\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Left-clicking on the B: drive icon (dis)connects drive B:.\par
\par
Right-clicking on the drive icons opens a context menu with some "useful" options to:\par
Stop the motor (if it's running you crazy).\par
Change the 'SEEK' sound (if it's running you crazy). Unfortunately, this doesn\rquote t sound as good as in SainT.\par
Turn your fine SF314 double sided drive into a miserable SF354 single-sided drive (if you were unlucky back then and feel really nostalgic).\par
Select the side of the disk as if you were using a 'freeboot' switch (don't forget to reset that later!)\par
Select drive sound samples. You pick the folder, the files must have those names:\par
drive_startup.wav, drive_spin.wav, drive_click.wav, drive_seek.wav\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 GEMDOS Hard Drives\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Another handy button on the disk manager is the GEMDOS Hard Drives button. It opens the hard drive manager. You can have up to 10 virtual hard drives. To set one up select the folder on your PC and then select the letter that you want it to be on the ST. Those virtual drives are called GEMDOS drives because they're based on interception of GEMDOS commands.\par
\par
You need to know that this type of emulation is very convenient for you, because you just use your PC hard drive, but it is based on hacks, and in some cases, it could not work as on a real Atari. \par
Hard drives aren't as reliable as disk images, most things will work but not everything. If a program isn't working properly copy it to a disk image (using the ST desktop) to see if that helps. Another option in this box is to choose which hard drive to boot from if floppy drive A is empty. You can force Steem to boot from a hard drive even when drive A contains a disk by holding down the CONTROL key when you run after performing a cold reset of the ST.\par
\par
Right-clicking on this icon will toggle GEMDOS hard drives on/off.\par
\par
Notice: this emulation based on interception will only work with TOS and compatible OS as EmuTOS, not MagiC for instance. \par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 ACSI Hard Drives\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 There's also an icon for ACSI hard drives. Right-clicking on this icon will toggle ACSI hard drives on/off, left-clicking opens a box with setup details. ACSI (Atari Computer Systems Interface) was the SCSI-like interface between the ST and a hard disk or a laser printer (not emulated). ACSI emulation uses img files that contain all sectors of an Atari hard drive (data only, like an ST floppy disk image). The size limit is 1GB in Steem. Note that unlike GEMDOS hard drives, each ACSI device may be split into several partitions (C:, D:...). The driver you use must be able to handle each of those drives (Atari AHDI is fine, though some programs may prefer ICD Pro). \par
\par
Two ready examples are provided in the download, images of the familiar SH204 and MEGAFILE 60. It is also possible to enable GEMDOS virtual hard disks at the same time as ACSI virtual hard disks, you need to adapt letters of course. ACSI drives will take the first letters. It's handy to copy files. Transfer speed depends on Disk manager 'Accurate Disk Access Times' option, but even when it's not checked, the ST operates slowly compared with a (modern) PC.\par
\par
It is even possible to format those disk images inside Steem (for advanced users). More importantly, you can use a 3rd party file manager to edit ST hard disk images, 'Drive image' by Petari:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://atari.8bitchip.info/drimus.php }}{\fldrslt{http://atari.8bitchip.info/drimus.php\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  \par
\par
Note that some programs will work with a GEMDOS hard drive but not with an ACSI one, sometimes depending on the driver. AFAIK it's correct emulation.\par
\par
In turn, ACSI emulation being lower level, it should be compatible with any alternative OS, such as Magic.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Home Folder\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 The disk manager allows you to select a home folder. This is where all your disks or shortcuts to disks should be stored. You can go to your home folder at any time by clicking the third button from the left in the disk manager window. If you are away from your home folder you can quickly move/copy/create shortcuts to disks in your home folder by right mouse button dragging them to the home button. The button to the right of the home folder button sets the current folder as your home folder. Right clicking on the home button and the set-home button brings up menus allowing you to go to/set 10 quick-folder links.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Options\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 To the right of the set-home button is the disk manager options button, it brings up a menu with the following choices:\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Accurate Disk Access Times (Slow)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Floppy disk drives are slow, horribly tediously slow, so by default Steem does away with the waits and emulates disk access at impossibly high speed. \par
Unfortunately, some ST software uses, ahem, colourful ways of accessing the STs floppy disk controller that only work if the disk access is horribly, tediously slow. Even some contemporary demos poorly program the controller. So that is the reason for this option, but don't leave it on all the time or you will surely go insane!\par
Though the 'Drive sound' and 'Drive track info' options may make this ordeal more bearable, as you can see and hear what the drive is doing, you don't get the feeling the emulator is stuck. It's emulated the way it was.\par
The option doesn't operate with CTR, IPF, and SCP images.\par
Some disks won't load without accurate timings.\par
Speed for images run by Pasti is set in 'Pasti configuration'.\par
The option also works on ACSI hard drives (but not GEMDOS).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Count DMA transfer cycles (advanced)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 On real hardware, each time disk data is transferred to or from memory, the CPU must surrender the bus. It is correct emulation to do the same, but it can be trouble according to the floppy or hard disk emulation method (especially accelerated). This option allows you to disable the feature. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Automatic fast forward on disk access\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Sometimes disk access can be really slow, so this option makes Steem always fast forward when the ST is doing it. There are some programs that continue while accessing the disk, if you are going to use one of them then you should turn this off.\par
This feature is compatible with 'Accurate Disk Access Times', with MFM, Caps (SPS) and Pasti emulation, which means you can get both accurate and fast emulation.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Read/Write Archives (Changes Lost on Eject)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 To access disk images in archives (ZIP or RAR files) Steem extracts them to a temporary file and uses that like a normal disk image file. Unfortunately re-archiving the temporary file is very difficult, Steem can't do it. Besides, modifying an archive is questionable, maybe we just shouldn't.\par
Because of this by default all disk images in archives are treated as read-only, so they can't be changed. \par
By turning on this option you can make Steem allow writes to the temporary file, but any changes will get lost when the temporary file is deleted (the disk is ejected). \par
Some ST programs require their disk to be read/write, this option will allow you to run them without having to extract them.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Disconnect disk B\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 By default, Steem emulates an ST with an external drive attached, this is usually very useful. Unfortunately, most STs only had one drive and some programs will get confused when there are two. \par
It is usually a good idea to reset after you change this option as the ST might still think there is a drive B when really there isn't.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 MFM emulation (advanced)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Option to internally use a MFM format for ST/MSA/DIM disk images. Steem automatically converts those images to STW on insertion and back on ejection. MFM emulation hopefully is more precise. It can be slower and disk image conversion takes some time too. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Pasti options\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Pasti, by Jorge Cwik (ijor at {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.atari-forum.com }}{\fldrslt{http://www.atari-forum.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22 ), is the way to use the STX floppy disk format in Steem. This format allows emulation of original (protected) floppy disks of yore. Try to use the last version of the plugin.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s4\sb40\cf2\i\f2\fs24 Use Pasti for all floppies and ACSI (advanced)\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\i0\f1\fs22 This will use Pasti to run ST and MSA images, and to handle ACSI disk images. You don't need to check this option to run STX images. It's useful if some images don't work otherwise. In fact, in Steem you have three ways of running the same ST or MSA disk images: Native, as MFM and in Pasti.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s4\sb40\cf2\i\f2\fs24 Configuration\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\i0\f1\fs22 It opens a dialog box managed by pasti.dll. It is recommended to set all 'speed' options to 'slow' for precise emulation, which is what you should expect of STX images.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Enable ghost disks for protected disks\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Check this option to harmlessly save high scores or game progress with CTR/IPF/STX/SCP disk images. STG files are automatically created when the game tries to save data on the disk, leaving your image file untouched. The image may be in an archive. STG files are simple and compact collections of sectors, only those that have been changed. The feature may interfere with some programs, in that case you only need to disable the option.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Run PRG and TOS files\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This enables direct support of PRG and TOS files. To run standalone PRG or TOS files, you need to set up a Z: hard drive that points to a PRG folder, preloaded with a DESKTOP.INF file and an AUTO folder. Steem will copy the file in this folder (always under the same name, so don't worry about disk waste). This should work with files inside archives. The main limitation is that it only handles single files. If the PRG needs a data file, it won't work. Also, some programs just aren't meant to work that way. In this case they should be run from a floppy or hard disk.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Automatically Insert Second Disk\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Lots of games come on two disks, if this option is on when inserting a disk into drive A Steem will look for a second disk image with a similar name and insert it into drive B. Note that even if Steem manages to insert the second disk in drive B:, the game may still require a disk swap in drive A:. Many games had only one drive in mind unfortunately. The same for demos.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Hide Broken Shortcuts\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This option hides shortcuts that point to a file that doesn't exist. If you show these shortcuts, then you can right click on them and select Fix Shortcut to allow Windows to search for the target file. You may want to check this if you have many broken shortcuts that are going to stay broken to speed up displaying of their folders.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Eject Disks When Quit\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This makes Steem eject all the disks from the drives when you quit.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Double Click Action\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This allows you to configure what happens when you double click the left mouse button on a disk image (or a shortcut to a disk image). By default, doing this will insert the disk into drive A, reset the ST and then run.\par
The same effect is assigned to the 'Enter' key.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Close Disk Manager After Insert, Reset and Run\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 If you don't like the disk manager open when you run a game, give this a go.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Hide Extension\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 By default, file name extensions are hidden.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Icon Size and Icon Spacing\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Save space with small icons, see more clearly with larger spaces.\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf2\expndtw15\f2\fs28\lang1033 Tools\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Next to disk manager options is the disk image management tools button, it brings up a menu with the following options.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Search Disk Image Database\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Steem uses the great disk image database created and maintained by Keili to be able to recognise disk images. Using this option you can search for a program to find out what disk images contain it. To download the disks have a look at Steem's comprehensive links in the General Info dialog.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Open Current Folder in Explorer\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Opens the folder the disk manager is looking at in Windows Explorer.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Folders Pane in Explorer\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 When checked causes the folders pane to appear when you open a folder in Explorer.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Find in Current Folder\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 Opens a Windows find dialog with the "Look in" directory set to the current folder, useful if you have a large number of disks in many folders and you want to find one quickly.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s3\sb40\cf4\f2\fs24 Run MSA Converter\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 This loads the MSA Converter program that can be used to edit disk images. It needs to be there, of course.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32\lang1033 Command-line options\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Here are some useful command line options for Steem. The easiest way to run Steem with them is to make a shortcut to Steem.exe, right click on it and select Properties. In the text box labelled Target add the command line options on the end (after the " if there is one).\par
This is also how a frontend will launch Steem.\par
Don't add - before the options.\par
\par
 NODD, GDI - don't use DirectDraw.\par
\par
 NODS, NOSOUND - don't use DirectSound.\par
\par
 .st, .msa, .stt, .dim, .stx, .ctr, .ipf, .scp, .stw, .hfe, .zip, .rar, .7z, .stz file - load disk & go. \par
If two disks are passed, then the first will go in drive A and the second will be in drive B. Autoinsert second disk won't work.\par
\par
 .prg, .tos: same as disk but those are individual ST files. \par
\par
 .sts file - load snapshot & go.\par
\par
 .stc file - insert specified cartridge.\par
\par
 NONEW - means that if one of the above files is passed to Steem and a Steem window is already open it will be opened in the current Steem and not in a new window.\par
\par
 OPENNEW - means the opposite of NONEW, the files will always be opened in a new Steem window.\par
\par
 NOLPT - this removes the option to connect an ST port to your PC's LPT ports (that option can cause a crash on some versions of Windows).\par
\par
 NOCOM - this removes the option to connect an ST port to your PC's COM ports.\par
\par
 INI=[filename] - load [filename] instead of steem.ini.\par
\par
 TRANS=[filename] - use [filename] as translation file.\par
\par
 SOF=[freq] - stands for Sound Output Frequency. Output will be forced to [freq]Hz and all other factors will be ignored (unless setting the sound card output to [freq]Hz fails, in that case Steem will ignore this option and use its usual method of determining output frequency).\par
\par
 WINDOW - force Steem to boot in windowed mode.\par
\par
 FULLSCREEN - force Steem to boot in fullscreen mode. There's also a Startup option for that.\par
\par
 DOUBLECHECKSHORTCUTS - this makes Steem's disk manager check shortcut files more thoroughly, some people have had problems when a shortcut's target file name is in a different case to the actual file. This option makes the disk manager slower to display folders with shortcuts in them.\par
\par
 SCLICK - this option makes Steem output a click when you run and stop instead of a bump.\par
\par
 NOPCJOYSTICKS - don't look for any PC joysticks, sometimes joystick drivers do some weird things!\par
\par
 OLDPORTIO - we changed how I/O to LPT and COM ports worked in v2.4, if you are using Win9x/ME then you can use this switch if it doesn't work anymore.\par
\par
 SCREENSHOT[=path] - this tells the currently open Steem to take a screenshot. If no Steem is open, then it won't do anything.\par
\par
 ALLOWREADOPEN - this command line option makes Steem open hard drive files as read only. TOS has a bug in it that allows programs that open files for read to write to them, most versions of Windows and all versions of Linux don't allow it. Steem gets around this by opening all files as read and write. \par
This works well except in circumstances when another Windows program is accessing the same file. If you want to do that then use this command line option to open the file as read-only.\par
\par
 SCREENSHOTUSEFULLNAME - this makes Steem use the full disk name as the screenshot name, rather than just the first word.\par
\par
 NONOTIFYINIT - disable the "Steem is Initialising" box.\par
\par
 STFMBORDER - if it is not overruled by the saved options or memory snapshot, this makes Steem start as a STF.\par
\par
 NOTRACE - Steem won't create a Trace.txt file with debugging info (there is also a more convenient option in the startup page).\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32\lang1033 INI file options\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057 Those options are inside the steem.ini file to avoid bloating the emulator interface (GUI) itself.\par
They were mostly requested for special needs.\par
\par
\b DefaultSnapshot\par
\b0 You can define a shortcut, called "Load Default Memory Snapshot", that will load the memory snapshot you specify in the [Main] part of steem.ini, for example:\par
DefaultSnapshot=[path to Steem]\\memory snapshots\\mysupergame.sts\par
\b WindowTitle\par
\b0 You can change the name that is displayed as window title and in the task bar by adding a line in the [Main] part of steem.ini, for example:\par
WindowTitle=Microsoft Excel\par
It is useful if you mean to run several specialised instances, each in its own folder.\par
Limitation: mustn't be longer than 100 characters.\par
\b MonochromeDisableBorder\par
\b0 If you add this line in the [Main] part of steem.ini:\par
MonochromeDisableBorder=1\par
Borders will be off in monochrome mode, except if you switch them on after the cold reset. You can use different configurations instead.\par
\b NoNotify\par
\b0 If you add this line in the [Main] part of steem.ini:\par
NoNotify=1\par
It does the same as argument NONOTIFYINIT.\par
\b NoIntro\par
\b0 If you add this line in the [Main] part of steem.ini:\par
NoIntro=1\par
Steem won't run its intro proposing to add a shortcut, look for a TOS file and disk images. Useful for frontends, maybe.\par
\b TrueFullScreenGui\par
\b0 By default, on the D3D builds, only the Windowed Borderless fullscreen mode can show the GUI while in fullscreen.\par
If you add this line in the [Display] part of steem.ini:\par
TrueFullScreenGui=1\par
Steem will enable the GUI option for true fullscreen too, just in case it works on older systems.\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\sb240\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f2\fs32\lang1033 Debugging info\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\lang2057 If you check the TRACE.txt startup option, Steem saves a log with that name containing some useful information in its running directory each time it is stopped. The Debugger may save both the trace file (SSE) and a \i steem.log\i0  file (legacy). The Debugger traces in both files can be far more complete and can be chosen off a menu and the Control mask browser.\par
\par
It is even possible to read the trace file from inside Steem, in the info dialog.\par
\par
Sometimes, a fatal error happens (system exception). To help reporting, an alert box describes the error. The message is also copied into the clipboard and in the Trace file. If the bug happens in Steem itself, it's sometimes possible to track it down using this message.\par
\par
Please post good reports on the Steem forum (not at atari-forum), the key is "being reproducible".\par
\par
Bug reports:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://sourceforge.net/p/steemsse/forum/bugs/ }}{\fldrslt{https://sourceforge.net/p/steemsse/forum/bugs/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
}
 